






















It's the most expensive thing.



















They're willing to pay a ton for smuggling jam and peanut butter.























You have to have your man outside, usually from another school and older.


























So my cousin's big brother's best friend's sister's sister's gonna bring them in this afternoon. I know how stupid that sounds, but I'm afraid to take them myself.












When she asked me for the first time, I said, "No way in the world."



























Looks like your cousin's big brother's best friend's sister fucked us. - Us?










Frankie's the last person you want to owe.

What, are you ready to get your hair warmed up right now?

Ready to get the big ones?
























- Great. That's what we need to do...













You're gonna meet your big brother's best friend's sister again.












The first time was the hardest.











I really want to.




























Frankie keeps making me catch, and I'm getting worse every time. Plus, I'm a bad liar.












Johnny says he fucking refuses. - Tell him he's my best employee. And ask me what the hell it is.
Hey, Johnny. Frankie said you were one of his best employees, and what's the problem?














Thank you... big.






















I'm gonna take a look at the big drop on the larvae...
I thought that would never happen to me. That my best friend would betray me.














When I first found out about Johnny, the first thing I wanted was to come over and punch him in the face.






But I... need a big one.








Look, this is my last time.





















It doesn't matter how many children have been punished.









And now that he needs you so much, you're giving him up?





Look, I got a free catcher, cracked Nick's team and forced Nick to turn his back on one of his best friends.



I think I got a good return on the investment. Isn't it?




- Shouldn't you be with your new friends?













Why would we take a bastard like you? - Because I can catch supplies today, for the first time free.
- What the fuck do you want this for?


You set up your best friend.



I don't think that's a good idea.


























Only to have Frankie believe him when he gets back. - What the fuck do you want this for?






















And where there's a great honor, there's a lot of responsibility.




























But good players usually only come out of nerds. That's why the other guys are freaking out here.









They also control the football field. And if you're gonna play there, you need to get permission from Frankie and his gang.


























- No, I'm not! Only until the last change! - Excuse me.
Make it up to today's latest change!











But it takes time for things like that.
























- The saddest thing they've ever done to themselves.





















































We call him Bubbles. Because his bladder is the size of a camel's hump. And he hasn't eaten anything but onions for the last four days.
He's ready.




















New rule.











Do you think they'll come up with a new way to attack?



























Ready?


Plus, Frankie's gang is shaking, waiting for another attack.











Nice swimmer, asshole.
Out of respect, I ask you one last time: let us play in the field.













One side strikes, the other is more powerful. And when the first guys want revenge for it, they strike even harder.


It's only getting worse.














Yes. But you start first.

































We didn't ask for any more. Thank you, Nick.




- Very nice!










The reason I want to be a doctor is because I believe people shouldn't suffer. But I'd like to see Frankie kick his ass. It's all set.






























Game on, my best friend!







Hey, man has to feed his family. I have a big family.
















































































Big Mazzie.
The story of the Big Mazzie.














































































No, Big Mazzie.










































































































































Big Mazzie.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
Good morning.

Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.








- Good night.
- Good night.
- Good night.
- Good night.





I'm beautiful.




- Beautiful.






She's beautiful.
Yeah, she's beautiful.









- Beautiful.


- Big.
I'm big.
Big Mazzie.
Big.
Small.
I'm Big Mazzie.
Big.
Small.
Big.
Small.
Big.
Small.
Big.
Small.
And I'm Big Mazzie.

Big bag.
























































































































































Okay!
Okay!



Beautiful.
That's good.























We're two big friends.



We're two big friends.

























































































Are you okay?



















































































































































































































































Because I'm small.














Now, is that my bike?


















































And messed up the new glasses.

















Beautiful.
It's better and better.








It's better not to get involved.

































































































Good idea, Woody.




It's always gonna be funny, it's gonna be okay, it's not working at all!










So that's nice.








































Let's not think about the bad.













Luckily for you, we're not really interested in what you've been doing these days.






If we need to get to the truth, we get to the bottom of it.















Tell her I'm okay.











I saw their little faces in front of me.



























Okay.
You two stay here. If the driver comes back, just wait by the car, okay?


















- If it's bad news, can you lie to me about it?








































Okay, then let's move on to action.









New identities.






















Wait, let me tell you, darling, okay?








Call my parents, tell them I'm okay and I'm okay, I'm just gonna travel a little longer.






















Okay, yeah.

































We can't leave the old names, can we?





























A new hope.
New house.

Adam Newhouse................................ * A new home (russ ) - New House






















Here are some rands for the first few weeks. * South Africa currency, 1 Rand ~ 3 rubles











This is your best chance of survival.
















Rick, Rick... it's gonna be okay.




You're gonna be okay, Bax.



















































But he has the only best friend, and this is Stiles Stilinski.

You're not answering your phone! They're not doing anything without each other, so they went looking for a dead body in season one, and Scott bit a werewolf.





Mom, three calls on my first day, you're overreacting.

Oh, my God, I didn't really forget the pen. Class, this is our new student, Alison Argent.


And love at first sight.


She has a good soul. She's Scott's first love.



At the end of season one, she'll know that Scott was a werewolf, but there was a good story between them, and she took it very well.









But when love comes, it doesn't matter.









I'll try again. Lydia, lift up your sweet little butt and dance with me right now.














Then who the hell is she? At the end of season one, people weren't sure if she was gonna die or become more than Lydia Martin.




The purpose of his life is in fact to protect his loved ones.






That's why he needs to strengthen his pack and become stronger.



And what if it doesn't just go through this, but everything else gets much better.

























Make Daddy proud. In season one, Scott definitely thought the bite was a curse.









It'll ruin their lives. If you need friends, you deserve more than Derek.





























What's going on with you all? Derek knows better than Scott how bad things are.
So it's up to him to remove the threat quickly, even if it means someone's gonna get hurt, and it's better than letting something get out of control where you can't contain it anymore.













Remember? If we can save him, we have to try.



I think the moment Gerard threatens Scott's mom, lifts Scott to another level where he is, "so now you need to be very careful about what I'm doing."






It's okay, okay? If there's anything you can do to help, do it.

Half the first season of Alison, as you know, lives the life of a 17-year-old girl.



















































This scene was added, and I think this scene is very important for understanding Alison's further way of thinking, you see it there, such a lovely naive girl, and then something big happens.





































































And besides, it's a good distraction from Jackson.



















I think it was the best way to show how powerful the Alpha is over his pack.





'Cause 100 of my broken bones need a couple of hours to heal.

















If that's what you want, okay. But we'll do it on one condition.



The relationship between them is getting bigger than the big brother, the younger brother.










What do you want?

























I need Derek and his pack.








Not yet, sweetheart.












The moment Alison finds out that Gerard's cheating on her is the last drop.






















He just wants to protect her and make sure she's happy.








































I'm more about discovering new talents.














Every time I try to fight, it gets worse.















































He's gonna be okay.






















That's a good line.



















It's a spear in the morning, do we have to leave?











We just need to...









He's a good guy.
















It's beautiful.
It's very nice here.





It's beautiful here.













It's beautiful here.








Okay.























Okay.















I want to get to know the girls better.































I don't want a relationship, and I'm not gonna play date here.


































Big big carcass.






















I don't think he's as bad as you think.




I was confused when he disappeared because it was really big.






The first night in the woods alone was pretty cool, actually.
I had a good little fire.



















I don't need all that mercy on your part.






















Daniel really is a very good man and he has such a tender, very tender soul, if I may put it that way.


I'm not a big flower fan.

Well, you know, they're beautiful, but it's a little weird, the whole idea of giving flowers because it's like, "Oh, you know, I like you, so I want to give you something that's dying."

Something more durable would be nice, you know, even a simple stone would be better.

I learn something new about her every day, and these are things I never thought I'd find in her.















Nice to meet you.




He's not good at all.


My old friend since high school.




I need to talk to you.


























































Before it's too late, I think we should go.













































We should go look for her.

Better go now.

















































It's important.
We need to make sure.

Okay.







"Oh, yeah, he's gonna come to his senses, he's gonna be good."




We'll take care of you, okay?







We gotta get out of here.


It doesn't matter if you're in the woods in the cabin, you always feel like you're being watched, and the last two nights I haven't slept very well.










I think we need to say something like "it" already.



































The last thing she remembers is starting to fight you, so you can't just come in here and say that you didn't touch her!



That's not the best answer right now, kid.
I don't... believe me. That's not the best answer.





















































I can see it in his eyes, okay?





I just felt like I had to step back.



























Next thing you know, it's all blurry like one big black spot. 00:00:




















I found the last sign.











I guess I was in a weird mood, and I just wanted to apologize because I didn't want you to feel uncomfortable or anything, because I'm really glad that you...











I wanted to go check on her, see how she was, because all those cuts and all that stuff that hit her, she's definitely as scared as I am.



















- I need a break.































- Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. =
I'll give you one last chance. =












- Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. =



It's only 2:00 in the morning.










And he's got a big inferiority complex. He calls himself King. =














I know a better place. =





















The most important thing in life is...

















































We need to tell them that.









If you don't go on the first tour?








Then take your meds before you go to bed. You need to stop drinking and smoking.








You don't have to protect my place.
































I don't think she's in any better shape right now.
































It can't go on like this. She needs to survive those memories.
































I don't know what to learn from my enemies.


And the first thing I do is visit personally.















































But the most important thing is memory.
We need a weapon.



























































I need you.




































Okay.

















Then the people will be happy. but unofficially.





For peace in our country, the opinion of foreign public opinion is very important.


















































We need to get our spirits up.


Do I look cute?
you give in to my first love.
Oh... your first love? You need to be slapped.

She's so beautiful.


















Other people are tender to their first love.


















- Nice to meet you. And the captain of the united team of North and South Korea.







You need to read it carefully...







The most important thing right now is the team spirit.


It's so good to see you.


Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. being King isn't that bad.










Really okay?



























The North and South team needs luck.



- Who are our opponents in the first round?






We're definitely gonna be just as good.
Then let's put Italy first.

But they're still the best in South America.

To compete against them... how about the Netherlands? But they couldn't even get into the top 30.
Last year, they dropped out on the first tour.

















You need to say a little bit.








You're very beautiful.
Still not ready?
We're just doing the last test.
Ready.



We're starting the opposition selection ceremony on the first round. In which 16 countries gather and choose their opponents. It's the first time we've ever been involved.





Since India is the first one we give it the first choice.








Egypt has the best army in Africa.









































~ A dear leader. ~










You don't have to. Open up.
Okay.


It's very expensive!


You need to try to show yourself in public.























































































































After what happened, there's only one thing I've learned. It's just that you don't have to be emotional.





I need to go talk to the lawyers.







Then we'll get one, too. You have to cut off a few fingers.































What's the problem with a little date?


There's a lot of beautiful girls around.























The royal family of South Korea has suffered. He's very important.



Otherwise, more sanctions will be imposed on Korea.




















































Right now, the most important thing... is to put Kim Bong Gu in jail.






















































Don't you think you have to go no matter what?

Okay. I'm Kim Bong Gu. What are you gonna do?






Today is your last day of life.






























































That's why you should've just been quiet.


























































I've liked you since I first met you.




































We're willing to solve the situation in ways we like.


Are you saying that North Korean citizens are caught by terrorists? Okay.










We need to ask South Choson for help. Whether the U.S. attacks us or not. It'll be considered a political gesture. The worse our situation gets.
Do you think we should ask the South for help?

Do you think we should go to the U.S. with our bare hands?










































You can go to the palace first.
Go first. I'll come back later.









At nine o'clock in the morning, command was transferred to the United Forces Union.


























































305.097 ♪ Last episode ♪






What if it's bad?


I need Manuri.













































Or worse, it's gonna grow fat!












Honey? (Fr.)



















That's so good.





Do you still need a safe house?









It's very important!





You're an easy-to-reach girl! Wouldn't he like to meet again... and all that stuff?













They haven't bothered me lately.






I don't know if I even canceled such an important meeting.









It's like he's more important to you than I am.









Honey!
























But he chose a small sun. He won't want to go back to his Lorelei... something I'm worried about.







Why is your wife's diplomats so beautiful?


















































In the last year, the owner of the house changed.



































Are the results ready?
Yes. And I've already prepared for the worst diagnosis.







































These invitations have been increasing lately.










I've written down all my lovely plans.


















It's beautiful.

















He always had bad blood pressure. That's why he died.




They'll be happy.



Your father wanted to have a wedding in the best place.











And prepare the best reception and lunch.





- They're beautiful.















That's why I learned a lot from him. Have I been able to be a good guide for Con Seal?











































You don't have to be happy.













































Me and the little sun have similar problems-- they're waiting everywhere, too.







To protect the famous little sun.

I need to get over the red track.














Sweetheart... do you call yourself Seok Chol or Chol Seok... give life?

















I'm happy. And he's gonna act arrogant or he's gonna be too straight and stay close.































Let this moment be sweet and sweet.














I've got an important call to take. I see.

























'Cause most of the trouble's gonna be on you.


















All of a sudden it's like magic and it's like it's a good thing who's your half.












































































































One is worse than the other.














































If you're gonna kill me, you're gonna have to kill me first!






























The tree is expensive enough. Maybe something else?






























Aiguu... the new judge doesn't know anything about it.

I'll talk to the new Judge about taxes.







Why didn't he bury her right away? Why would you make a noise for three days?



How could you live in such a city? I'm sure you haven't seen the Young Master for the last time.

Do you have good taste?


Tie it up. It's okay.





















































Old Jade Emperor.


Put that word "old man" away. Why should I be old?























































































Let them go first.



































































Okay.















Okay.





























































































Okay.
It's gonna be okay.









This little...






























































This time I expect more from a girl...

































It's okay.













I'm fine.

I'm glad you're okay.
You need to rest.









Okay.














'Cause there's a new judge here now.









































































Who this man... doesn't matter.
That's how we catch him... that's what matters!







































I need to get into the house right away.


























It's okay.
Everything else doesn't matter.
I feel bad.









































It's just my dad's not healthy right now. That's why I'm in a bad mood.








I need to meet someone. And punish him!

















That's a good name.





















































































Okay!











What's so important about what they're talking about?



























































But why is she in such a beautiful state?































































I need your help for that.















You don't have to do this.













While I was at home. We need to pay a visit. I'll take this opportunity.














Did you sleep well?




Are you ready to leave?










Okay!

I need to wash up.










Are you the new Judge?



Okay.







He has a very big problem... adorable.






























































































You don't have to.

























She was a very beautiful woman.

















































But don't say it again.















It's a nice place.


You're gonna have to leave all your memories behind.





























Then what do I have to do?



































I'm the only one who cares... that I'm being punished for it.





























































Beautiful.





























I... need to connect Go Share.







I forgive you one last time.










It doesn't matter...















































This role of Magistrate could be the last part of your life.




















You should weigh it well.

I'd rather be a commoner.


Old regime or new regime?






























who does their job... who have the skills and... that they occupy an important place in the Department.






















'Cause I don't see anything special in the new one.









































































Protect the people you love?










































And I like it less and less.




Ross Edwards. I hope I'll be glad to see you, too.









I mean, he's a good father. She's taking care of me.
But he attaches too much importance to purity.
Is that bad?
It's too big.







I know a lot of good sites for that.





















What if we make him go on a date and it gets worse?

So it won't get any worse.




"We did what we could, darling.


















Dear shoes suggest good income, strong drinks in the middle of the day mean that you're looking for any way to forget and, like me, treat heartache with something even stronger than my cocktail.

And we're gonna get sick of each other 'cause no one's gonna go to Mexico if he's all right in his life.
And when we get each other, and there's no need for us here anymore, I'm gonna want to fly out of here on the first flight, which is a huge problem for me, because I kind of can't run to where I ran from.












Are you glad you left the science career?












Look, I'm so happy for you.























As if there hadn't been the last three dismissals.


Okay.



Oh, it's an honor.











That it's important.











It's just my speculation, but if he's still keeping the dead wife's puzzle under the glass, then I suspect he's definitely not ready to date other women.










Hello! How's my little champion doing?

If he asked for new toys, I'd be afraid to say no.








It means they may not be aware of it, but we're looking at an almost ready couple.






















Motorism has a great impact on the brain...





That's why, just by using muscles that work when I smile, I can feel a little happier.
























Next. Tomorrow morning, we rent a bike for Megan, break the chain, and send it to his store.
Good morning.





He was the best book of my life, and I'm no longer interested in others.
I can't read any more books because none of them will be as good.























Psych books? Yeah, it's from an old friend of mine.
























It's not a good time for you. Couldn't wait till tomorrow?
































That's why you're the last one to find out...







Jessica's in first place.









I don't think we can give Jessica advice on what to wear. Besides, she should be ready by now.










But the thing is, when they're together, he looks a lot happier.


Clark, we have to go if we're gonna get in the limo.

- I know you have to go.



Of course not. Okay.






























Okay, we agree.













I'm really glad you came.
You know, I'm... I'm glad you're happy, too.
I'm glad it's a good bar.




It's gonna take a while for it to settle in his head.









That's our plan B, okay?













We're gonna need a little mess.
Something I've had 20 years of experience with.
























I'm serious! It's okay.































How can I start a new chapter in my career, leave with Beth if I can't count on you - the only thing I can count on?

















Okay?
Here's a new plan.














I'm fine. You and I... we're good.
Yeah, but maybe even better.


We're just doing okay.















He needs you.









That maybe we shouldn't make any vital decisions until we know the seriousness of our relationship...




I just need to think about it.







Are you okay?























































It was beautiful.



It was beautiful.







































































Are you ready?

The samurai is ready for battle even in his sleep.




























- His words. - Okay.
at the last third of the hour of the Tiger.






Okay.
at the last third of Tiger's hour. Why are you following me?




However, for Koetsa to make the first shackle of the sword...




























Okay?






























I don't know who you're looking for.


And then... I'll be ready to marry you and live with you for the rest of my life. I want you to succeed in life!



















The last third of an hour of Tiger's.















































Now they have the best Kodziro.




















































































Thank you very much!




















My first step was a mistake. At least it was for Oko and Akemi.





























































































Indeed... I owe you a great debt. Mr. Musashi.











































I came to see you. We need to discuss a plan of action.

I need a man named Miyamoto Musashi.
He left in the morning.
- In the morning? - Yes.






But before I do, I need a little money...













































































































































































































Musashi... isn't it? And that's good.

In recent years, the conflict between the Buddhist teaching of life and the teaching of martial arts about the deprivation of life was perplexed. So he ordered the disciples to postpone the spears and forbade them to practice martial arts.










And that's what's most important.







































































Nice sunset.




That's good.
Very good.












I've taken the lives of over seventy people. Good people. I killed them.


You don't need fame.
You don't need a good name.











And until the last breath... I'll be watching.















Such a tiny little thing made me happy.

Isn't that right? - It's beautiful.
Too good a time for this.
What are you doing with that old paddle?


























The fight between them plays a very important role.


Are you ready?






























There's a big one over there!


I'm big.

One's a big one.

I'm small.

The third little one.

















































































I'm ready.
I'm ready, too.

That's better.
























































You and me, we're happy.



Who is this beautiful girl?











No, big ones.



















































I don't think you need me at all.
No, darling.
You're exactly what I need.







Oh, good old Bishop.















It's my first day. Zach Miller.



That's a good case for the first day.
























That's very good.

Okay, I'll hold it.




Relax your leg. Okay.




Okay.





We need to test her for brain death.




















Okay.














Okay, well, of course, we need a final permit if there's any family member.













Four people get a second chance today, and three people are willing to risk their lives for it... all thanks to Iliana.

















Okay.
She's got the first negative with six antigens.


When was the last time you saved four lives in one day?

They should be removed from dialysis and ready for surgery as soon as the organs arrive.
We need a team to confirm that the recipients are ready and in the O.R. by the time their kidneys arrive.

He's our last recipient.





The most important thing we need to understand is that we only have one shot at it.

Four extractions and three transplants in a few hours until the last kidney goes to St. Donald's Children's Hospital.


All right, this is Dr. Jeremy Bishop, our new general surgeon.









We'll be the first in town to have an inter-hospital domino transplant.


Maggie, take Dev, start the first extraction.










Dr. Kowalski, phone call on line one.
Dr. Kowalski, line one.
























What's up, Dawson?




Doctor of old poems.


I thought I could write one big novel.












Ready to end dialysis?
Yeah, he's ready.



Ready, Erin?


So yeah, I'm ready.




He's only got an old cot, and the battery's always gone.


He's coming, darling.












This is our lucky moment.




But we need to move now.










I need time to digest it, Emma.


It's okay.





How bad is it, Maggie?



We're looking at a little kidney with a crazy arterial net.

Terry's ready.





Okay.
























































Take good care of him.




It was the first mistake.


There's nothing wrong with that.








Good night then, Professor.




















You have no idea what it's like to sit hopelessly while your best friend gets worse and worse.



So you understand why it's so important to me to get to Don Erin?



Are you okay?






I thought I was ready, but I'm not.












Okay.





I'm here for the first day.
































Well, he's finally ready, and he's got this plate of cheese, all right.

















































It's okay now, Josh.










Yeah, I guess when you meet someone... who understands you, all your cockroaches... everything else doesn't matter, right?




Okay.













Good grades...
Good friends.






We're good, Emma.










Even if we unfreeze her, there's little chance of recovery.







Freeze didn't bring any good, but warm saline...







Okay.





















Okay.





Alex, it's okay.










It doesn't matter how old they are.







Okay.

Who's first?





I don't want to sit here and get worse.






















This needs to be accepted.












We need to get him to radiology now.








We need a resuscitation kit.

















My little girl.












Last one.




It's gonna get to someone who really needs it.
































































Are you ready?










That's right, yeah, that's good.




- I need this. My marriage is like Walking Dead.






♪ A clean slate and a new career ♪ ♪ And by the way, Josh lives here, too ♪



















Joshie, do you need... glasses?


Okay, well... I hope they like this rice cooker.









I just want him to be happy.

I'm so glad we finally decided to live together.












Joshie, I need a sage to clear the house of evil spirits.



She's worse than the whole Kardashian family.










I don't need that feeling. I respectfully reject that feeling.

My hope and my support! Are you ready to heat up at the meeting?
Calvin Young is the most important potential client we've ever had.








Okay.

"Mr. Young, I know you've already chosen a law firm to represent you in Josh's move to a new apartment with his beautiful girlfriend..." No!










Okay, I'm coming.



Fine, it doesn't matter, I'll do it myself.
It's so nice to feel... valuable.


I got wiped by a magazine tester this morning.























I'm glad to be here, Darryl.












Okay.











I think you need to go home.


Okay, you're not off the case.

And then, when you come on Monday, I want to see the happy Rebecca we all know and love.
Such good advice.

To be happy.








It's important to deal with feelings immediately, because depressed feelings lead to depression.























♪ This stitch needs to be rewired ♪







Look, you better get your shit together, miss, or you're gonna put your new life in a ditch.










































One second you're walking down the street and the other you're already in a big musical.











That's too bad.























So, here's what I need.
I need this.










That's great, but I should be better by Monday.




Okay, okay, you know what?




He left at the last minute.

And is she more important than that?




























- without missing anything, start. - Okay.








Okay, fine. I was born in Prescott, but I knew this little town wasn't for me, so I moved to a big town. - Phoenix?






The last words she said were:
Calvin, be happy.



I'm out of here. Okay.
Okay, let's see... pink pills with 55 on them...






And that's exactly what I need.
Rebecca, I know what it says, and I know what you need.
You need to understand:








What is it, a little pill?




Let's get to work. Okay, let's see what we have with the presentation.




Okay!

Shouldn't we edit it first? Okay. Is that an Oxford comma?



I'll be happy to show you around tomorrow morning.






My friend bragged that this was the best little jazz bar in town.







I stayed up all night, hung the fish, painted the wall, put up a poster. Washing the fridge, redoing the seam in the toilet, and the last touch... you're gonna love it!








Valencia posted a nice picture of them in the new bedroom.

That's sweet. That's good to hear.


But I'm starting to realize that maybe that pill isn't what I needed.







That's good.
No, that's not good.







Hello, darling.












Brothers are more important... tables.

My sweetest move was to stick it out in time.



It's worse when you can't park in a normal place, because then only the back pass is free.




But I'm still happy that at least I have one.



Dr. Acopian will be happy to see me.

"You're so calm!







I'm very calm and calm right now.
















Okay.
Okay.


You're small, but your breasts are like a British babysitter.



The best table, please, sir. I don't work here.


















Travel has taught me that treasure can be found in all cities, big and small.












You're very nice.









♪ He's staying in the best hotels ♪
♪ There's a big buffet for breakfast ♪
























I'm not ready to end this meeting. And you?









I'm ready to make a deal, Miss Bunch.





















Okay, look, I need to tell you something I'm not proud of at all.










I need a cab. Uber.
I need Uber.













Okay.
Okay. Okay.






This is your new dinner table.



That's so sweet.



Okay, I mean, if that's not what you wanted, I think that I...








Okay, bye.














And you need to feel it completely, you need to face it. Because it's a temporary solution.

















You're a beautiful woman,















It's okay.








Rebecca, I'm really glad you opened up to work on yourself.
I'm happy to be here, and I'm ready to face upside down.
I know it's hard work to do, but I'm ready for it... it's work...





So, I'm gonna go on a very important occasion, but I want you to know that this isn't the end.














Is that a good table?




Look, why don't you stop by sometime, just look at the new place?

















I'm a big fan of yours.









Maybe you need help with that.

You guys are a very nice couple.




















He's Josh's best friend, and if you sleep with Josh's best friend, you lose every opportunity when you finally come to your senses and realize that you're destined to be together.



























With that attitude, you're never gonna be someone's Prince Charming, and I'm gonna have a fabulous love story.



Are you feeling better, Bunch?














I've calmed down and I'm ready to talk to Rebecca, so get out.


























All right, give it to Rebecca for me.


She and I have a past together and it doesn't matter if you're together or not, we have a connection.



































♪ Little ♪
































































But you love flowers because they take a special place in your heart and they've always been in it, and the balls just have to give up because they're wasting their time?









You... you need to rest.























I know what I need to do.

A bad, indifferent guy.





I need a second appointment.





You're good at this.












Okay?


Do you need to understand that "is up already?" "Are you excited?"

I need someone to talk to.
I'm in a big fight with my best friend right now, and without her, I feel like I'm fucking insecure about Greg.



Right, okay, but we were in the hospital and he was very nice, and then we came home, and he got weird again.








We need to tell each other how we feel...
We need a moment, right?















No, it's actually from Glamour's new room.

















Everything's fine.

Everything's fine.





































































She needs towels.




















You know, I'm really glad that I, again, happened to meet you because I wanted to talk to you about the situation with Jama's wedding dress.



Oh, heaven, it's not very beautiful.


I have a better idea.


Okay!




















I'm looking for something very beautiful, Moisha.












Feeling better?































Wow, they're very beautiful.



All the best for you and Valencia, always.

I-I wish you and all yours the best too.
Okay.

So, are you ready to make a choice?








And I'm so glad you're here.










Now, the kingdom of Scarsdale presents to you the beautiful daughter of Silas and Naomi Bunch...





Everything's fine.















No, it's a wedding, but I should have been more clear, so it's fine.

It's gonna be fun, and you're gonna say something nice over there.
Okay, I'm coming out.


It was so beautiful.



Josh, when are you gonna put a ring on that beautiful girl's finger?











- Okay.
- Okay.

I mean, I wouldn't mind champagne, but the shots are fun, too. Okay.
























Okay.
Are you sure Greg's the one you want?

You're cute.









That's very nice of you, but it's okay.
It's okay.



- Okay.








All right, let's go.




It's beautiful here.

- Okay.

- Are you ready?
- Yes, I am.


- Okay.

- Okay.


Okay, okay.

















That's better.




Phillip and Jama's first dance as Mr. and Mrs. Epstein!
- That's so sweet.








I guess I'm just a bad guy.



































Okay.





She needs you.



I gave her the best advice, and she ignored him.






And, Paula, you and I are best friends!


Yeah, the best.
Yeah, the best.









When you're ready.




That's so sweet of you...








I was supposed to be the best friend.



- And I felt so bad.




- You're very beautiful.





- You're my daughter, and I should have been the best mom.








No, it's okay, I like it.




















You said you were ready for the next step, so let's do it.






You know, the last few months I thought Rebecca Bunch was our problem.


























My parents split up when I was little, your mother left, we don't have the best role models.






You're important to me.
I mean, it's very important.



And... I don't care how you say it, Greg, okay?


Okay.










I need... I need...
I need a nap.









































♪ What you need is ♪





































♪ What you need ♪






































♪ A clean slate and a new career ♪














Okay, okay, here's what's going on.







Josh, I'm actually really glad you're here because I realized something about the trip.
And one of the things I realized was that I needed to change my habits.





- It's justified. And I need to get over it.


Unless you need them.
No, no, it's okay.






Okay, that's it.











Learning to drink at the same time is a good solution.




It's a very good university.









Exactly what I need.


























The old me would have been all hands for the good old-fashioned holiday, but the other day, I thought I'd try to change my habits.



































First drafts, second drafts.




















This last test...















Okay, the audience, in general, everyone made a good effort, but some of you, however sad it sounds, aren't enough.

You don't need criteria to understand that you haven't put enough effort into it.



















































♪ Happy Daddy ♪
♪ With your big father's caviar ♪



♪ Like it's so important to know how to throw a ball ♪












♪ I'd make it good if I wanted to ♪

























We haven't seen each other since the book club last time.








Who's gonna give up a good discount, huh?





You were such a good friend to our family.
You wrote Justinity a letter to get into Harvard, but unfortunately, the letter was better than her statement, but at least she went to Northridge's California branch.




She'll be happy!














Paula, I'm telling you, I need to distance myself from this family.


































She's cute.














You're such a good magician!








I know it's better this way.









I know exactly what you need to do.









Ready to try on dresses?



This is gonna be so much fun, ready to be friends?
























Oh, my God, these are beautiful sticks!











That's really... that's a good idea.












My first idea is to put poison in my dress.







I'm gonna be a typical long-standing ex-brother of the bride who became a last-minute girlfriend.









Are you sure this is a good idea?













No, we don't need cleaning right now, Rick.




























There's so much you need to say...















There's something I need to tell you.

My dress is ready and I brought champagne!






























You know, we all thought you were terrible, but you're not so bad.











It would look worse on me than any other.

You're always joking about your body and it's funny, and it's mostly true, but with your big breasts, it would look cool.





Guys like big breasts like you.
I sometimes hate my little breasts.







































♪ I don't need a pillow in the car ♪
























No wonder my breasts are small.











Valencia, you're gonna be a very beautiful bride.










Okay.
Okay.













Okay.


You know, I... I've been praying to God my whole life, and I never knew if she could hear, but... thank you, Big Mommy.



























Stop chasing an acrobat idiot and pay attention to a guy with beautiful thick hair who really cares about you.






Okay.









I don't think we need to do anything.





I think we should give up on this.











But look at you, I see it was a bad idea.
Actually, I realized that I have a lot of bad ideas... in everything.







You're just making the worst decisions.






































And I did it anyway, and you were happy.

Okay, that's what happened before, but it's not gonna happen again, okay?














To make you happy.

















But we don't need Josh Chen.
Because I don't need it.
Okay?
Okay.


Sorry, I needed a drink and I thought you'd be in class.


Last chance.




No, it doesn't matter.



Yeah, I'm trying a radical new way to learn.







Well, I've never heard of a gin tonic before, but I think he has a big future.





Do you need a vest to cry on?
And you came to see Greg because he's a good vest.




Okay...











Okay, Josh, it's a long story, but all that matters is that Valencia is now loved by your family.


Josh, focus on your girlfriend and your family, okay?
And next time you want to talk, you don't have to show up at my door.
Okay...
Yeah, okay, cool.

There's something I need to do.












I ate old fries off the floor of my car, but...


It doesn't matter.



Okay?




- Okay.





I'm so glad we're finally doing this.





















Cooper Barrett is here again with another important life lesson.
When you're 20, you're used to feeling invincible, which could lead to bad situations... for some very stupid reason.






And the most important thing then is to stay calm.





No, it's much worse.















Do you even know one beautiful thing about phones?



Okay, look.


We can be single phones, okay?







Well, we were at the bar this morning. Watched the game, did you check it out?









Oh, well, we're just celebrating a new big purchase.

Josh just bought a nice new car.



Last-model SUV, full of junk, rear monitors so the kids can watch cartoons.






Okay.









Let's go get him. Ah, that's not a good idea.


Now he's happy.



They have their own important business.






What? Honey,












I'm so glad I'm staying with you.

Okay.



















Okay, just give me... you guys.


Okay, okay. ♪ We could put him on the stage... ♪

Okay.











Well, if you don't have feelings for him, then you can go to that cute guy over there.

He's good, too much like a model, the perfect face, I can picture our kids with him, but I just don't feel anything.




Don't thank me. I don't need your help.



"The Irish don't need support."





Oh, no, honey, he doesn't like you.

















They're just two very old white people.












They need to take off the sequel.

















That's sweet. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh...


It's a really bad idea.







It's not that bad.










Just buy yourself a new phone, Cooper.

Besides, I need that phone.
It's an important piece of information. And I don't have a cloud because of Edward Snowden.











We're thinking about you. Scream if you need help.


















Okay, next song for all the guys in the front row in the building boots, deep-cut shirt, black short hair...






I'm black, okay? All you have to do is kick your boobs out and act like a gangster.










It's like a hotel booth. I'm happy about that.

Maybe these neighbors aren't so bad.
These guys are really cute. Usually, 99% of skateboard jumps end with a broken ankle and my laugh at them.






That's not good.
















































Oh, it's the best night of my life and anyone's life.






















Cooper, I still need you.

Wanted to find my phone first. What's so big about your phone that it's better than making out with me?

















It doesn't matter.










No, thank you, you don't.







Tina, I appreciate what you're trying to do. But that's not gonna happen right now. I need my phone.
Okay?


I got some important information out there, man.




Unless you met a girl who came first.












It's the worst.











Yeah, most of the time, but my new car just blew up!





There's nothing to be ashamed of, darling.



Come on, darling, we're leaving.







Everybody ready? Yes.










Anyway, your son stole our stuff and then burned my brother's brand-new 4x4 SUV.








Sometimes, the best way to deal with something is an adult not a paintball conversation.



That's good, 'cause
Josh is very important to Cooper.



Okay, if you want to keep company again, call me.
I want to, but first I need to get better and learn a couple of demobilizing moves.



Because if you're not careful, bad things can happen much worse than losing these things.




She's my new Bobby.


It's so sweet, but it's disturbing.




















The last thing I want to do is talk to someone on the phone.





In life, you meet old friends and re-establish a relationship.
And that's just great.


Is it bad?








You're the worst.



























Um... what else do you need to know?






















You see, my neighbors and I were promoting hangover medicine, we were just in the middle of a very important business meeting.









Yeah, sure, okay.














Good to see you, man.







(Laughter) Like old times.
Last time I saw you was in your brother's room hunting bears with friends.






























Yeah, Cam, we were actually in the middle of an important meeting, so...












You know, guys, I don't think it's a good idea to leave Cam here.


















He was the worst.



















Good boy.











He's the worst man alive on Earth.














Are you okay, miss?
I'm sorry, I just need to slow down for a second while I try to reboot my brain after what just happened.







I'm the first, okay?


When you're ready.






I know you're big, you can't hide.











Everyone, listen up, let me be the first to say this, okay?

Come on, you're the first person to say that?









I thought your friend Cam was the worst person on the planet.
Okay, I've already said that, word for word.








I think there's something that needs to be done first.

The next morning, I woke up and started looking at our creation.







We need to tell him that I didn't feel anything before he said he didn't feel anything, even if I wanted to sleep with him again.
I understand why this is so important to you.









Cameron Rush was the best man in the world.
























I mean, the best municipality in the world.































You have one new message.































































Have a good day, sweetheart!









I know a guy in Tarzan if you need a number.















Do you need him? What?













We should go in and wash, and then we should go to Highward's big grocery store.


I just came up with a new joke.






Probably wandering from door to door, rubbing everyone's sense that he didn't feel anything first.






















So, it's important every minute, my wife's about to come out of the grocery store, go upstairs and find a body in...






It takes a lot of ingredients to cook paella, so it's gonna stay in the store longer.



Then Barry and Kelly will accidentally run into her and start talking to her so she can stay in the store as long as we need.





I recreated a random meeting using an old-fashioned televised blow.




The worst televised blow in the world!








Gala's good.









Is that bad?
Nothing good!







You okay, Officer?



You need to fix it.

First thing I'm gonna do is, uh, first thing in the morning.




















































Nevertheless, you have to understand the division of life into parts when old buddies fit in and when they don't.
And when you have to tell people what you really think about them.

























Yeah, he's the best.






I wasn't the first to feel it!





A good mood is very important, as is optimism. But we don't make the rules of life, so sometimes the courage and the resilience of life...
...is the most important.










Sheila... you really need to calm down and enjoy the last week of your pregnancy.

I'm not a very calm person.


If I were doing school grades, I'd write, "You can do better."


My mom says it's a big one.

I need to see Dr Turner right away, please.





















I need this to happen on Sunday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. while the kids are at school and Marcus is at the docks.

















One morning she came crying and refused to explain why.




















- Tim, there aren't many good melodies for a pagoot.









We'd send Susan to prosthesis in January anyway, but I talked to them today, and they'd be happy to see her early.













I'm gonna have to go shopping in the morning and buy something new.








She doesn't have to go to school.
She doesn't have to go anywhere where we can't be with her.
We need to grab every opportunity!

Then I see no obstacles to squeezing home visits between eleven and one-half. And then you can take them all to Rohampton.










Young Mrs. Sengupt's water broke at 4:00 a.m.
The theory is, of course, fine, Sister.











































He started the letter with the word "darling," Trixie.
A man would never say "darling" without serious intent.


Nurse Crane needs a gas tank and extra help for Mrs Antoine.








They've been the best in this field since World War I.














Come on, darling, over here.





Okay.




Beautiful head.
And the baby's on his way home, honey.
People say their hair is like lamb hair. But I think they're beautiful.

















Or a little girl for mom?



















Happy birthday, dear brother!


















The sooner you give up your license, the better.









These little guys.



















We need an ambulance!






It's okay if parents are worried about their first visit, Mrs. Mullax.









I think we should all focus on what's best for Susan and for you.




I need to take your statement and decide if there's a need to refer this case to a magistrate.











































But it needs to be fixed!
















Tell her it's very nice of her, but I'm very busy with the closet audit.







The first and the hardest.


If I could just go to the hospital... and get him his rabbit. He's had it since he was born. Pretending he doesn't need him anymore.

You'd better get some rest at home and build up your strength.







He needs his rabbit.

Your dear doctor called and said you were coming.




You better make it bigger, and we can measure it as soon as the prosthetics are ready.


I'm gonna give you time to say goodbye, and then I'm gonna take the baby to the room, okay?





Is that bad?
Let's just say it's not a scent for someone's old aunts.




































- I'm ready to confirm that under oath.






You may have said it first, but since we brought her home, we've been saying it both.







You're mostly in a bar, Bernie.






Come here, open the right page.




















Okay.

She's a good woman.



























If I don't come back within the hour, take it as a good sign.










She's as blonde as you are, and as sweet and funny as you, and I love her, but she's six years old and she's my daughter.






Because I was afraid you might think of me, and because I wasn't sure we'd be so close that it would matter.
- Do you think it's important now?





















Very good.

She's putting old sweaters on strings to tie up poor people's mittens.
And I don't think she's doing very well.




Oh, I remember, little boy...

I make coffee in the thermos every morning.
They only have tea here, and on bad days, I need all the support I can get.
























The drug was licensed in Germany in 1956, and the first children with injuries were born in 1957.










I ask myself that every morning when I open my eyes.
















We need to stick together... or we'll just get lost.


I'm making a new rule.



Neither in front of us, nor in front of each other, nor in front of our beautiful, beautiful little girl, because it's not our fault.



We're important.

Maybe that's the least bedbrush you're gonna get with your teeth.







It's been ten years since I had a baby, and I don't feel any better since that time!






Vera, when was the last time you ate?
Yesterday morning, around seven.





I'd be willing to accept the fact that he was married.










With the last contraction, the baby's head appeared, Vera.



Push again as soon as you're ready.
You have a little girl, and you were great.








It's a new game of soldiers with artificial hands.


What's worse is when they run out of gas, and they get stuck in the weirdest positions.
















But the fact that friendship grows into something more doesn't mean that trust should grow faster.



I'm just thinking about what's best for you, and I'm not gonna bring any more champagne on dates.
















This is our chance to practice public speaking and learn something new.
And we're gonna start with Lenny, Wesley, and Jerome Antoine, who are gonna tell us something very important.
This is our little brother Delamer.










This is my little girl, Katie.

I just remembered how bad I was with the other two, and I thought I could stop it.



This is our little Susan.



She's worse than some, but she's ours and she deserves more.
They all deserve more.








We need to get her to the hospital.









Good, 'cause the answer is, uh.


















♪ I'm insanely sweet and charmingly obsessed ♪
















I'm getting married in less than two weeks, Patrick.
















































It's only with a couple of cherries on the cake that we need to decide on the details of a cherry-on-latte, but the exams are more important than that.















































Dustin and Sasha from Halifax in Nova Scotia.




All I'm gonna have to do is get some lights out of light bulbs, some canvas bags, some glass cans, and some cans, some cans.


All right, all I have to do is spend a day in handicrafts... and the wedding's ready.






















Dear God, I know you're busy with things from Afghanistan to the Zeke virus, but if you had a minute... we could use your help with the break-ins to the ring.
And since I'm in touch, if you're gonna resupply the shoes with the new Jordans 5, size 42, it's gonna be super.



















One of the reasons why we decided to speed up the wedding is that Becks is good at weddings, and she likes it.












































We're gonna need some discipline.


We need to focus.






No, I wanted you to come to work. So I can tell you that you have to go to work.

























- Hey, honey.






































Okay.

The key to good planning is good organization.
And the key to a good organization is prudent.









And we don't need to talk about it, but if anyone wants to be loyal to doing the right thing and taking responsibility, we can all move on.



And she can do it again, so we should all be... ready for it.












We need to do something... other than that list. Then the two of us will finish them.

Okay?
















That's sweet.


Very, very, very bad.

Okay.












Okay.
Okay.
























Okay?








Okay.











Best wedding ever!















Seriously, you need to get out of the office now.















Okay.








I don't need any help.












You know, I had a lot of ideas about getting married, but she doesn't like most of them.









God, you're so calm.





You know what, you're not ready for any meeting.
















As my dad says, children, the old and the weak need to sleep during the day.





And we're saying that you don't need to sleep like a baby...






























I need a wine.

















It's just, lately, it's like you're out of your mind.









And now I have to plan the whole future for myself, and I don't know what it is.








They must be on something, or something, or they must be hung.






But that's okay, because he wrote such a cute note." Stuck in a remote construction site in Alaska, hard to find a flight, it won't work."
Beautiful.
Fine, just fine.




Oh, man, that's bad.


I really need someone to talk to, and you're the only one I can talk to because I messed it up.















Not Nova Scotia.









♪ Patrick, I really need this ♪

♪ I'm not pushing, but I really need to know ♪








♪ And that's why I need your hand ♪






♪ Anything in that spirit would be nice ♪
















♪ But I need a little more from you today ♪

♪ One last delivery ♪















Well, he's in the middle of a very important man's initiation ceremony right now.













I'm actually much better.




















Because I don't need any help.





I just need to accept the fact that Josh and I are gonna have a two-and-a-half-a-half-plus wedding, which on average gives us three, which, as we know, is actually two.
Okay, if you need any of this, take it.

This vortex is quite expensive.


























It's all you need.
























You need this.
























I booked you for a fitting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. sharp.




Patrick, I'm so glad you called.




















Get your ass to the most expensive wedding boutique, get a credit card, and get a size six dress, a very beautiful and magical dress that everyone's gonna cry from, you terrible human likeness!

Sometimes moms just feel the need.

God, what a beautiful dress.

She has good taste.











Instead of big cans, they're small now.


















Darryl and I need you in his office.































- Doesn't matter. You're out.





















What... were you doing the last time you were in St. Marks?

Good job, Cal. Well done.



That's the first time you've taken a drug, honey.
You need to move.






























And we meditate on the changes we need.







It's okay, Mary.

And we're all here to help you.

























I'm glad you came.





























































Thank you so much for coming.








It's so important that you understand that this kind of behavior isn't common to us and we'll, of course, pay for it, so if you send us the bill, we'll cover the cost of the window.



- Thank you very much.




I think it's important that you understand that they abuse your kindness.










We were so happy to see him.


















































































How's it going? Okay.






You just went the wrong way, but... but your passion, that's what's important to our cause.

















Eddie, what are you doing here? I need to talk to my son, Cal.






Okay?












Cal wrote the last three steps? Cal's with Sarah?




As soon as you're ready.











































Okay, I don't know what's been going on with him lately, he's freaking out.













This one's, like, the last one. - Thank God you're with us.

If you don't need me for anything else, then I...

























I'm so glad you came.




Anyway, I don't want to brag, but I really have to tell you something really, really important.

Anyway, I'm the best machine player in the whole universe.







Thank you very much!





















































And I'm even glad you threw a rock through her window a little bit.



I'm ready to go to jail if I have to.



















It can be bad for both you and us as community leaders...


You've got a big, beautiful building in the middle, and I have to tell a dying farmer that I lied and I can't help him with his water tests because one corporate bitch is forcing me to quit.






















Hey, it's okay. You're okay.





Thank you very much.


Thank you very much, ma'am.




Isn't this world much better with me?
Tell him he's better with me.
























There's a private lab in Albany, she's ready to do some research.































We need your help.


Okay.










Horace, darling, lunch is ready.









































- I was asked to leave the First Precinct.


And then I heard that by lucky chance you had a free spot.



My darling, darling, my best and only companion.









He was recently examined by the best vet in the country.




Dog owners are on the heels of Horace chasing prizes, all of whom would be happy to get rid of him.

Everyone knew Horace was one of the best dog's favorites.

































- A very important dog, notice.




























































Thank you, dear friends, for meeting here on this insufferable occasion.
Horace Frizzle was my sweet, sweet boy.




George, which one of these dogs is most likely to become a new champion now?








What else can we say about a creature so beautiful and noble and loved?




- Good night, dear prince. Sleep well. - Okay. Let the angels sing your dream.








We're not welcome here.
















And now this awful man is the first in line to win the contest.

























































I didn't do anything wrong.





- Good girl, Pistachio.


















I figured the best way to solve this case was to deal with one missing woman at a time, starting with...




- She's first on the list.
















When was the last time you saw her?









That's where she was headed the last time I saw her.










- So we can work less?












It's from an 11-year-old girl from Lunenberg, Nova Scotia,






When was the last time you saw this book?


I turned around to see your beautiful dog, who, by the way, has already escaped.




















































Detective Watts needed help. Jackson's working with him.





















My dear brother would be so proud.




Okay.













Good dog.














































Sir, I'd love to, but my landlord won't let you have animals.








Okay, well, then she and I are gonna spend the night here.


Very good.

So I'm not gonna be in the best shape tomorrow.












Mr. Dubois leaves the hospital tomorrow morning.
















Well, looks like you're calmer now.


























Okay, George.











However, without any new evidence...

And as far as I'm concerned, finding a missing person is as important as solving a murder.
































Yesterday you showed me a pair of scissors that looked brand-new.





























When was the last time you saw her?



















She was last seen in the company of a high-blonde middle-aged blonde.
We have our first suspect, Jackson.














It's good to see you in good health.












Be a good girl.


And have a good day.




Now that she's back in good hands, we can focus on more important things.




Pistachio and Kaiser are the main contestants for the best dog in the competition, and Roger and the Duke follow them down the heels.


A particularly beautiful group this year, as you can see.
Beautiful breed.








The Duke is the first to go, Basset the three-year-old.



































Good girl.




No matter how great his desire for victory was, he believed in the game by the rules.








Of course, the dog will need a new house.



















We have to go to the hospital.




























It's okay.



You'll be in America by morning.





Very good.




























Let's have dinner tonight at the new Thai restaurant.





























It's like their new target is Chinese scientist Xiaoping Lee.

























Okay.



We sent people there. They needed shelter for this helicopter.









If that's true, and she's handing them over to us, it's gonna be the biggest intelligence agency in 10 years.









































And in good condition.

















Well, no matter who she is, she wasn't half as beautiful as you are now.






Yeah, good boy.
Good. You're a good boy.






Who's a good boy?
You're a good boy.
























I thought he was the only one who would make me happy. That I'm safe with him.


Worse than fiction. Lie.






I need a lead.




















































It's from an area of expensive memories.


















The first is the ethephon. Growth stimulant for tobacco.

























That'd be great. But he's pulling someone out in Ecuador.

































Keen's first.




































You think I'd be happy if you spent the rest of your days in prison?
























































Nice try.
























































I'm on the side of the good guys.



























And next thing you know, something's gonna start new.
You deserve a better life, Lizzie.
















With your best wishes, Knut Swan.










Today, the amazing performance of Galla in a big tent in the field behind the hotel.
































Raise the new flags!



The sanctification of the new flags.
To issue new flags.
















Grievice's first demand.



































'Cause you're just like me until your last hour, and when they put a tombstone over you, I'm gonna sit on your grave!" I don't know.
Prague's students... lead a beautiful life!

"The best swordsman of Prague and the bravest student!"



"The best swordsman in Prague and the most active student should be given this opportunity!" I don't know.
Jealous Ludochka knows all about old Scapinelli's ruse and fears for Baldwin.




"Dear cousin, I will obey my father's wishes, but I do not love you."





"I can become known as Baldwin, the best swordsman, the only one who can match me is my mirror reflection."







"Mr. Student... don't you want to be not only the best swordsman and the most violent student, but also... "

"What's it gonna take?" I don't know.









"Well, well... agreement is agreement!" I don't know.
Baldwin's having a new life...











"My dear cousin, don't forget you're engaged to me."



Dear Countess, you will keep your promise to meet me tomorrow at an agreed place.



If you go to this meeting, you will be in great danger!" I don't know.




"My dear Countess, there is peace..., peace..., loneliness...."












But this Baldwin is Prague's best swordsman!" I don't know.
































'Cause you're just like me until your last hour, and when they put a tombstone over you, I'm gonna sit on your grave!" I don't know. Alfred de Mussé








- No, you first.





























































Sugar is a white death... pay, I have to go. You owe me for the ride.

























I'm attracted to calm men. Hey, fuck, get out, get out, or...

Nothing wrong with that?























Better than I expected.




























- I don't know... - Okay.
- I don't know. Wait. - Okay.
Okay, okay...


























The further, the better. Here we go.

Were you okay? Yeah, sure.















The last shipment of gold was stolen.




























I didn't promise you my picture, but you don't have to ask for more.

In the name of love for you, I'm willing to sacrifice anything.





At midnight, two suspicious individuals approached the old mill.


Your latest information has proved to be very valuable.












Last try.

















The next morning.















Your latest information has proved to be very valuable.





"Dear God, let me see my father again."


The answer must be at the old mill!
The old mill became the center of battle.







I didn't promise you my picture, but you don't have to ask for more.













We're getting ready for the first fight.













Filming a new film.












"I need an assistant."


























I need the insurance money."


"You want to get good money for nothing."









It's more than reality, available to me.


People who've been there think it's the most important thing in their lives.





This drug is questioning our concept of reality. And his stormy story I'm raising a lot of pressing questions about where I'm personally free to face state politics. Which would be the most useful thing for a professor to do to me, I think he's gonna be awfully useful, to almost any person with a standing I understand, to have a clear sense of what's what, if he's a prince I am.



































One tea I spooned a new drug could inject 50,000 of the people into my state of temporary insanity.





























If they were me in the same place as you and... For most patients, I had the first effect about 20 minutes later, for some in an hour.






with much more emotion.




In my opinion, we studied the effects with great caution.




















♪ How it all happened ♪ ♪ Once I was red in the morning of May ♪




I saw what Adam saw on the morning of his creation I was born the moment in a moment, the miracle of the naked existence of me.







I realized lightningly at the peak of panic, the break-up I'm under the pressure of reality is much more than the reason I'm in a comfortable world of interpretations can reschedule.


Myr, discovered by that sunny May morning of 1953, struck the Axley to the depths of his soul.




I thought it was a beautiful word, but at the same time, I'm very hard to say.



In one of the most recent books on mescalin, you spoke of the importance of the lofty pillar I am not conscious of, caused by... drugs, correct drugs.

I think the Professor could do the most to benefit from this.





















- Yeah, I'm ready for her.
- Okay, now I feel like I'm in a great mood.















And eating at least the experience I've acquired so far seems to me incredibly interesting and pushes me into new and new reflections.

And for the last half hour, the Ristofer has been encouraged to reflect on the incredibly dark twist of time.





Ristofer, please tell me, are you ready for this?

































In which I spoke of the great difference of x in the human relationship between me and drugs, which casts shadows of doubt on the individual demands of me to educate.
I'm more confident and I'm gonna give her a dosage of mescalin.










And the use of drugs for me to achieve the divine substance of me is nothing but the cheap acquisition of such a substance of me. IF YOU're taking drugs, you're probably not ready to understand why this kind of experience can't do any good.














At the same time, I was the one they needed unsuspecting people who wouldn't know they were taking drugs.

People who didn't understand what was happening to them seemed like they were eating my mind and there were a lot of accidents with that approach.








I believe that with the emergence of LS, we have found a new way of thinking about me.
And it came up with all the new and new thoughts that were born, for example, in the imagination of people like Bob Dylan, John Lennon, or I'm S. Burrows.







And my metaphor is coming from me that they thought there was something important to them in this room, but they didn't want to test it on themselves and hire this student.


And one day I discovered that my key fits the resident lock, and I thought it was too important to leave this research to me in the hands of the government.























Relax, it's all the fun I'm most in demand, both today and tomorrow, and years from now.




I believe that with the emergence of LS, we have found a new way of thinking about me.
And it came up with all the new and new thoughts that were born, for example, in the imagination of people like Bob Dylan, John Lennon, or I'm S. Burrows.


The money I got from my first novel, "It's over a cuckoo's nest," and I bought a used school bus with my friends.




L — D contributed to the emergence of new directions in music, in cinema, and in theatre. Maybe... once in a century, something's changing. Give an example of a flower that blooms once in a hundred years.




Oger is a Cruton, a professor of philosophy at the present time of my neck, I was very suspicious of her.



And that's exactly what I've done to you when you're young and you don't want to. LSJ encouraged me to be like this, and even though I'm the greatest through it, I've forgotten a lot of people.

Millbrook, New York. In 1963, a group was formed to honor LSJ as a mystery of the new religion.






We've been through this violent and noisy, they've been a quieter group.



And for a few years, whenever they wanted to trip, they cut off a little piece of the suitcase and ate.






I knew right away that it could be very dangerous, because... A substance with such a deep ephete must be used with great caution.
And you could say LSJ... if, of course, you know, like, marijuana, or something like that, then you could say, it's a brand-new thing!
You can actually get a spiritual experience like me that can be much more important than a six-fold reading of the Bible, or, for example, a spiritual school on my puppy, you know...






It's not because I'm very smart, but because they give me good lines for the show:








We got together that morning about an hour before I was supposed to start my service upstairs.





Thanks to my luck, this tape has been kept until tonight. [This passage from the Liv poem - ansom - seer describes the impression of samarith I kni from meeting with "Issues at the well]







Then I kind of took it in my hand and said, okay, let's see what this expansion is. He said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
























Because it immediately received a high market value... I remember my first experience in New York, G Rinwich V ordge, where I was given a so-called cube of sugar with a few drops of LSL solution.






























Definitely, in my case, I went into contact with a drug crop and ran into a very big wall... when I started participating in a feminist movement... and I'd say it didn't work at all.







LSJ... much worse than heroin, I think.







And the stupid mind is leaving him, and he feels it. He's very, very bad.





















He was one of them. I'm interested in visual distortions and mystical discoveries, and he's taken a large dose of LSJ with a friend.




And of course, then you could see something different from everything I've seen before -- the new me green, the new me blue, the new sunshine, the new shapes, and it was all possible at the same time.















I didn't feel guilty because it wasn't because LD was bad. It's a question that was used by me, misused by me and abused by me, which of course is bad, and that caused all these problems. So people, a lot of people asked








Every year, about 27,000 people die from alcohol. But you don't see much harm in the fact that alcohol is evil.



And what's scary is that there's more than the reality they've encountered." I mean, those gates that they don't dare to enter and they don't want us to enter, because there we can learn about something they don't have the slightest idea of me.


































They think they can control heroin until he starts controlling them. I can sleep tomorrow, good night!




Of course, to some extent, it's not that important the reason I was used. It's possible that LS is an extremely powerful drug that we can't control, so I'm taking it.









It's like... it's like I'm on a mission. When he died, he didn't move me, it's just his breathing stopped and his face was frozen with a beautiful expression, and I'm incredibly gorgeous expression on my face.






And what's important is that I've learned from the LSL experience, it's an internal conviction -- the reality that I'm usually supposed to be, it's not just about the nations, but rather it's a mixed one. I've been experiencing a different reality.








"It's a good thing this isn't my cellmate."













Honey!
Honey!












My dear sister, the famous Prince of Zhbrshawn, by the way, is a charming gentleman, and very rich is hosting a big ball to which we are invited.





I'm getting worse.


What about the new hat?





























Madame is so beautiful, she should have been kissed.

This is the first awkward movement today.

Must be a big shot.





















The next morning.




We always celebrate the arrival of new guests.








It was nice here.

















He is able to convince his leader and mentor Paul Davidson and "Union Film" to support the old creative dream of creating a full-fledged dramatic picture.



The film, which involved a couple of real palm trees and an Egyptian desert in the limestone quarry of Rudersdorf, was very difficult to produce.
The painting was a great success.













































































I'd be happy to have you visit me on Sunday.






Honey, I don't have time!
I'm in a hurry - the Spanish ambassador's wife has a new dress fitting.

Don't wait for me, darling, it could take hours.






I'm willing to give you that 1,000-Louidor bill.








One morning.




They say he's very sympathetic to beautiful women.
















You will do me a great favor if you yield your friend to the King!

























This morning, the whole of Paris will be singing these verses.









My dear Duberry, the king has decided to make me an office favourite.
For that, I need a title that I can only get through marriage to a nobleman.




Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, That's why I'm ready to marry my fucking grandmother!





A few days later. Presenting the court to the new favourite.


People meet a new favourite with ovations!


















I'd rather go to jail than my sick wife starved.
























The King is busy with important things.




















































Part One.






I'm happy to break everything in the house!


For that kind of money, they all have little flaws.
Dear sir, since the daughter of the king of shoe cream married the count and the oysters are much more important than the shoe cream, I ask you to send me a son-in-law with a lineage comparable to my oysters.



Big debts.












I need to see Prince Nucky on a heart question.

















End of Part One.




































See how happy they are.



Have a good trip!



















The herring is bad every day.






I'm so happy.



I'm so happy!






I'm so happy.
















































People's belief in the magic spell seems to be as old as the world.














- The scientific husband of the Middle Ages drew the circle of the sky first thing -

























In those years, nudity was calmer.




The first thing the witches and witches laughed at was the Holy Crucifix.




Satisfying with the devils, with the first scream of the rooster, the witches went home.



















































































"For the last time, I ask:



















And how she bowed her knees, and that old shit Cissel - her servant - is also good..."













In the Age of Witchhood, it was dangerous to be old ugly, but the freshness of youth did not offer reliable protection.






































...Okay, look, once a wandering rock told me that before the storm was triggered, the witch put his hands in the water..."



























I'll keep quiet about those scary confessions I forced a young lady into in less than a minute...











"The Holy Lady, the power of the Evil One is so great!"


























According to her, the power she had to fight was much bigger than her own.



























"Great, thank you.








I've only got this Russian book from the stolen one in a beautiful mess."































The first sailor is Wolfgang Heinz.

Act I








Are these beautiful flowers?"




"His Grace Count Orlock... from Transylvania... wants to buy a house... in our little city..."



"He wants a beautiful, empty house..."


"Go quickly, my young friend, happy journey to the country of ghosts."






I have to go to Count Orlock's castle!"














End of First Act







My dear!





"Your wife has a beautiful neck..."
"I buy this house... a beautiful empty house in front of your..."















































My dear!






There's a lot of young people out there.





The first sailor, affected by disease, dragged the entire crew into a dark grave of waves.
In the light of the sun, the captain and his assistant said goodbye to the last of their comrades.


The death ship has a new captain.











It's okay now..."




























For there is no other escape from him, unless an innocent girl makes a vampire forget the first scream of a rooster. I gave him my blood of my own free will.






For there is no other escape from him, unless an innocent girl makes a vampire forget the first scream of a rooster. I gave him my blood of my own free will.























THE LAST MAN IN THE MAJOR THING:


Tonight, you're the first, respected, minister, general, perhaps even president.







Among the papers of an eccentric rich man was his last will. He bequeathed all his fortune to the man in whose hands he would die.
The Bible's saying "And the latter will be the first" has been confirmed on Earth. The money went to the lucky man.



Dear Mitzi. I just found out you moved to Vienna two months ago.



Keep being so cruel and one day I'll leave you!








Mitzi, you can't imagine how happy our family life is!
"I love you better than all the earth's creatures..."












Dr. Gustave Mueller comes by Brown's every morning, allegedly to talk to a colleague, but actually to see his wife.
I've never seen you... so beautiful!

My dear Mrs. Stock.









Gustav, you're my best friend.

When the first fight was forgotten, the Browns are having a dinner party.



I'm sorry, but I have important things to do at the club and I'm gonna be there all night.

Froline Hofer, it's so good to see you.






When the big entertainment's over, the little one's just getting started.






Honey, even if I'm angry sometimes, I still love you.











...I promised to tell Professor Stoke the result of the last chess game.
1 : 10 a.m. - The room turns on light 1: 22




Everyone doesn't like sunshine in the face this morning.





And I'm glad that a man with your position in society will help me get rid of my wife.
By the way, Mizzi's been living at the Bristol Hotel since this morning.






My husband and my best friend!









We'd better get in from the back door.
Don't apologize to me. I'm as guilty as you are.





First film, scripted and directed by RENE CLER

Paris falls asleep and the next morning the night watchman of the Eiffel Tower wonders why nothing wakes up in the city and because no one comes...








But how good is this wealth when it gets bored?






"Okay, I'll try!"
"It's 3:25 a.m., same time!"


















There's a house on the side of the canal in a beautiful little village. in which there was a happy family.













As soon as he's buried his brother, Uncle Jeff... he's ready to redecorate his inheritance.



She needed a lesson and I learned it.











Rayna, the owner of the local mill, searched the building every month to assess what repairs were needed.


It's okay... fine.














The one who laughs last!







The news of the fire caused great unrest in the village.












- As you can see, it's as hot as my hay.



















- So you're not happy with your uncle anymore?

I need a lot more.

























6: 30 a.m.



"Where are my slippers?" Today will be one of the worst days of his life.



How many times do I have to tell you that I need coffee first?"
"I'll try to get the money out of the family's budget to get your other couple back out of repair, darling."






"Did yesterday's meat leave a piece for lunch-- do you want to serve it hot or cold, darling?"










Every morning was turned into a struggle with time to do everything for my father.



"Honey, it's too hard for you.









"Nana, darling, don't say anything - for me!"
"I'll teach you, you little bastard!














"Go get some coffee water, sweetheart."





"I'm so glad to meet you, Mrs. Nelson - I was just following you."


Let's see what we are, two old women, can help them."





If your mother and this old witch don't leave here by the time I get back, then I will.




"Honey, it can't go on like this - even you have to accept it."
"I think it's my fault too - I need to try harder."
"It's all John's fault, my dear - he sucks all the juice out of you."
"All you say is how bad John is..."


"But we knew better times - I couldn't have a better husband.

"Son, wouldn't your mother rather listen to your homework for tomorrow?"











"I saved some shillings to give John little gifts - but he doesn't know it's from me."



Bring me a big bath, I'll make it for you."

"Good evening, darling."










"Now we have to save money - I'm not as good a mistress as your wife."
















"She stitched at night for months to buy you little gifts for the money she earned."



"Yeah, honey, it hurts to punish those you love, but for your mother's sake, we have to make your father repent."



"Honey, for your own good, promise me you won't let John know where you are."





"Good night, Nana."









"Dear Dick... Circus Circus..."









Dear Nana, I'm glad to report that I feel almost all right again, even though I miss John and the kids.


"A little sweetness, John - you know, old habit."








"I swear, I'll start with a new leaf if Mary gives me another chance."
























"Recognize that you deserve a good tweak?"



"John, my dear!"


"It was a very hard lesson, darling, but he made me realize how much you mean to me."







And the wise old clock seemed to tick:













Action one.


Tomorrow morning:




On the ground floor of the same house, counselor Rumfort lives with two daughters, Greta and Mariandle.





























Vienna's getting cold, she needs coal.























I have a lot of details to discuss with Canes.


So, my dear Canes, I'll show you the night vein.
End of first act.

To a beautiful and joyful Vienna!
And her beautiful women to envy the world!








It's a good thing the hostess of the hotel lets us sleep in the stables.

I need it less than you do.









I'll give you everything you need to be happy!
It takes money to be happy these days!





If it makes you happy, I'll get you $100!



Maybe you need some money.











Go to Mrs. Greifer immediately and buy a new coat!




Isn't it a beautiful town with beautiful women?






She wanted to see the first act of opera, then she'd come back...



It's too expensive for us.








Dear Doctor, something has happened to your...


























I'm ready to run with you.














It's too expensive...










Then you probably need the money.





I heard you needed a waiter.






















The next day, the first tenant arrived at Rumforth.



Dear Fraulein Rumfort, I get $60 a month apartment, and I'm also gonna make some money.
I hope we'll be good friends!















Lieutenant, we don't need your charity.




I need your help...

You weren't kind to my uncle, but I'd be happy to help you again.






















She was healthy and in a good mood.


"A little friendly party."










And I'm telling you, little Mariandle took two cans of canned cans from the closet.














We're getting better.


You're sick, and you'd better get back to your parents.







I really wanted to see you one last time.



















































"Are you leaving again, darling?"




I'm the new maid."

"But Monsieur Lepic is a good man.


























"Dear, could you pass me the bread?"

Just do your job, whatever you need!"











"Are you ready?






























No one needs me."
Mathilde, little girlfriend of Red.










I wish I was dead at all."

"I wish I hadn't come.



"To escape, we need money.

















Then he thought about his little friends.





"My little Ginger..."
"My little Ginger, go feed the dog."








































"The girl isn't the best behavior!"








"You'd better stay away!"











"My poor little boy..."

































"Stay with us, beautiful stranger!"
On the next island, in the magic lake, a beautiful Peri Banu bathed at night with her friends.

"Come with me to my beautiful homeland."



"You don't know how powerful the demons of Waq-Wak are!"










Beautiful Peri Banu liked the Emperor.





































"That's how I learned how to win the beautiful Dinarzade."

"In the morning, the struck Caliph visited a wonderful building."































"Go home... and be happy in the mortal world!"













Old Jacob Braaten couldn't afford to keep the bars, so his farm was falling more and more.



"I'd rather fish on our own farm and restore it."













And on Sunday, old rich Berger Housegett came to Glomgaarden to marry Berit for his son Gjermund.









He's not a barrack anymore. He owns the land, and soon his farm will be as big as you.



























Old Braaten was gonna talk to Berit's father, but at the moment, there was no talk of returning to Glomgaarden.






















Ola Glomgaarden suffered greatly in his separation and quarrel with Berit, but was stubbornly reluctant to take the first step towards reconciliation.







I need your formal consent, and that's why I'm here and I'm talking to you.















And for the first time ever, old Ola shook Thor's hand.

Thank you, Dad. I'll be happy with him if you give your parental blessing.

Berit was happy again.












Thor felt the current rushing him, and fought from the last forces with the ruthless forces of nature.

At this last moment, he must have grabbed the log.



The last fiacre to Berlin The Old Hearts are New Times.







Wilhelm's bread, Beautiful baking. Candy shop and Cafe.








We have to sell the gag, we can get 12 coins for it!"





"This watch is my set, but we really need money!"



















"Are you happy now..."













We have to go!"


"I'm ready, Carl!"





















The last fiacre to Berlin The Old Hearts are new times.











I heard the enemy nation had a new weapon.
That's why Metropolis needs a strong, more charming leader!

























Everything must be ready today, Dr. Lafton!

I've provided you with the money and the best instruments you've ever asked for!














































I don't have to return it with a full tank?
No, it needs to be refueled every five years.
Soon they won't need people at all.
























































Are you sure she's not ready?









My little Tima.

I'm gonna do the last touch and you're gonna run away with me.














Last plan for the Ziggurat.





Knowing what your "father" is waiting for that little angel?









































Do you want this notebook?




















We got rid of what we didn't need.

















People used to have good sayings.


























































































You're too old for this!







They're the last to be checked.














































- No, I don't need anything.




















- Why would Rock want you?



They need to be killed.













































It would be nice if the army helped us.


It's gonna be the last celebration of the Ziggurat parade of the Marduks.




And we're forming a new political party.
Of course, my dear Atlas.
You'll be very pleased with the president.






He seems small, but-- What?





















This crowd is the first thing that's gonna rip up robots like you.




Okay!










Good question.
































I'm glad, I'm so glad.

















Oh, you little...

































I need superintendent Notarlin.



























"Dear Tim, I'm sorry I can't tell you this in person, but I can't move freely.

































What's the secret to this supergirl that daddy needs so much?


Do you want this notebook?





And then I'm gonna need your help.
Do you need it?


































Ask your son if you want a real answer.























I didn't know you were such an important figure.


















I brought Miss Tima new clothes.





You need time.











































Your superman says she doesn't need people!


























I'm texting your Uncle Raymond that we're coming back. This is where the situation evolves from bad to worse.









The next morning, the Red Army took the city.












I only have this little business.




I need to find a job.





I'm so happy.


















I'm leaving tomorrow. Money and things are ready.


I'm so glad you're here, Doctor.








Will you bring the money in the morning?







You need to get some sleep if you're leaving in the morning.























In a small hotel in Montparnas.














Joseph von Sternberg's first professional film, at the time of his appearance on the screen, seemed incredibly bold on the subject and stylistics.
















"When was the last time you washed your shave, Rolls Royce?"





"Your city, baby, what more do you need?"









Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I don't need anyone's help!

















I have to leave on an important case."




















"The Bull Weed is our best friend, isn't he?"

















"Please don't!"





"You don't have to worry about your lover.




And finally, the last crime has drawn a line under your career.








"Your last wish?"

"The only one who sees the Bull is Paloma when he gets his last dinner."






"Yeah, this is the last time."








"We can't do that. We won't be happy if we betray him!








"You're sorry to leave this old prison, aren't you?"



















"Ours cornered the Bull in his old den."



"I'm ready to go back and let myself hang if it helps me get this lousy skunk!"





"I needed to understand something, and this hour meant more to me than my whole life."





We're going to the ocean of mystics and passions on a small, leaking boat.

"The stage is ready for Eric the Great!"



Julie, my assistant, a colleague and a precious friend who might one day become something bigger.

















"This is an American agent, darling.








































"Your Honor, I need to put someone in the chest to replace the late Buffau Black."













I'm ready.

Through the Vincen Forest, Fadinar's fiancé is headed for his new home.

























Anyway, I need your wife's hat.









































Far north town, New Year's Eve.













...with her old patron, St. Stephen... guiding - soothing - comforting.










"You nonsense old fool!"

"The fruit of love " of this perfect, happy union was in the arms of sleep.










"What's the price of kissing your hand this morning?"










"The truth, Mrs. Scarmel, my boy, Shani, will always find the best place!



"Are you back to the old one?"






"And that's a beautiful view?"









And..... And the old Schweisser is very ambitious."











"How could I love them?" "'Cause the best thing I ever had was bought by my father..."








"I've never seen them, so I'll never be happy!"









"You are made for love, dear Mitzi!"







"Look for her in the old crew!"





And at this time, in one little "bad" house, on one little "bad" street.

"Aren't you staying for the party the old Schweisser's throwing?"






















"Nothing but shadows, darling... and fog!"
















"The wedding will take place on the first day of June!"








And... there's good news about your Prince Beautiful!"














"What kind of sweet girl is she, all crying?"


"How beautiful are these flowers of the apple!"




My wife, this evening you are more beautiful than an angel.
You're tired, honey.

Crane, darling. I can't leave without telling him.

I'll talk to him, darling.




























































Now I'm ready to bite!







I'm too nice and good for a dump like this!







I've already drained the last glass of this disgusting thing.

That shit never made anyone happier.







He'll be so happy to see you, he won't pay attention.





When I'm ready!
















Thank you... I think I need a drink.


























You're not an old man yet.
Not old?

I'm as old as Santa Claus!























I don't need you anymore!


No, no... you don't need any more!














































My little girl!


I'll tell you the truth, darling!







I'll never leave you, honey!














Fire... ready... for... white girl.












Honey, we have to forget about hate.






























"Well, still a dreamer, dear Leblanc?"
The steel factory in the small town of Cierre Bas in southern France was owned by the Leblanc family for generations.







"Have you always been very happy, Mother?"




"I'm so happy, Dad!"












































































We'll be happy!
We'll be happy!


You said... we'd be happy!




We need to talk to you, Mr. Hammer.

Someone didn't pay for living? We need our money.



What's so good about wanting money?




No! No! Money will never make you happy, and happiness will never bring you money.



















Remember, there's nothing more important than Freedom... except the Corners and the Sunday Night Paper.






Now, guys, take it easy...






















Let's put all this stuff down with a big shot.


Did you see that? For money, they're ready to dance for me.








- I'll be back someday. - Okay.

If you can find a window. - Okay, sir.


























You sound just like old times.




How can I not recognize this cute little hill?



It's too expensive. That's the problem.














I'm sure if he does, this place will be the most beautiful place in the world.























- I see. That's so fucking cute!







Thank you very much.
It was a beautiful story, Mr. Adams.






Do you know what happens to bad boys who tell lies?

They're marrying beautiful princesses.



Good guy.







































This is the largest capital increase since Sophie Tucker.



Now we've auctioned the Coconut Manor, a very awful place... which is beautiful.










- All right.
- I'm glad you asked.




























Do you know that the population of the Coconut Coast has doubled in the last week?


And in the morning, the goat's gonna suck.



'Cause no one can fool a woman like you with a bad sewer pipe?







I don't need her.
















































We need a room without a bath.


Okay, we'll stay till summer, too.























It's okay.








I can hire you on the first of the month.


Tell them I'll send the money in the morning.








If you pull your nose out of the tube, it'll be better.





Now, I'm ready, gentlemen...


Pick a better one.

I'm so glad.
If you'll excuse me for a few minutes... I have more important things to do.












Okay, goodbye.





- Okay, but be careful.
















Look, when the necklace's missing, someone needs to be blamed.















That's not good.
We need money.
I'm willing to do anything for money right now.







Beautiful watch.






























It's beautiful.


Hurry up, darling.














Did you know that you look like Prince Welles? Better!






Maybe you have a good idea.

Okay, I'll be there at 10:30.






















If only we could find a little bungalow just for the two of us... where we could play Bill and the cows...
No, better be a bull and a cow.


I mean, if we had a beautiful little bungalow... and we'd be inside and I'd try to get in... or out...









I mean, if we had a nice bungalow... I'd come home from work, and you'd be standing at the gate...

It's better this way.







My dear Mr. Hammer, I will never marry before my daughter.















































- Fine, but how am I gonna find him?

























































It's okay.






















I read in the paper, "The Big Boom in Florida." Here we are.
We have a big "boom" too.




















If we successfully sell these plots... you'll get a good commission.

























It's when a woman would do anything for a mustache. They're willing to do a lot for mine.

























And here's the little peninsula, and from it's a bridge where you go to the mainland.

















Look, hillbilly, let's say you ride a horse... you need to get to that shore.




















- That's good.
- And if I know that, the best position for you is horizontal.







You're going down that narrow path... until you get to that little line.





























You can see how little monkeys make doo-doo.
The little monkey plays the key.



And if you're too old to dance, put on monkey glands.












You're now in the Cocos Castle of one of the most beautiful cities in Florida.




800 beautiful residences will be built right here.
It'll be as good here as it used to be.




Remember what old people say?" A new boom in a new way."







Now on this precinct is a 20-foot facade, a 14-foot rear, and a mountain of beautiful garbage.














I was burned on the first one.
It was "great" success.





My friend, one milk in these coconuts is worth more than.

















Believe me: To get out of bed early, you have to go to bed early.














If I hear ten, you'll hear a lot more.



















This lot doesn't look big from the heights, but you're gonna buy it as cheap as I can.














Maybe someone needs a six-month subscription.








One of Florida's most beautiful sites.










$800. This gentleman here has good taste.
And a beautiful haircut.


A gentleman with double taste and a better haircut.












Now you're the owner of the beautiful property, buddy.












- It's so expensive?
It's so expensive? I'll give $1,000 to whoever gets it back.





















You're a nice man!
I'm so happy!






Okay.



































I just said I'd be happy to get a gift like this.




























- It's all so small! - You ready?
































- Please go first.
- Why? What's the matter, darling?


All right.






















Mrs Potter is going to give us a big lunch.








































All right, Bob.






























































Penelope, darling, how good of you to come.
Thank you very much, Mrs Potter.
Isn't that beautiful?























Old Ireland's Breath! ..
I remember my mom coming down the old road.
And I remember the old...


- I'm so glad you came, Mr. Hansey.
- Mutually, madam. At parties like this, everyone needs strict supervision.
And a nice girl like you always needs protection... and I'm here to protect you.
There are all sorts of dark personalities in the vicinity... that need eyes and eyes.













This cross indicates the place where the shirt was last seen.















I won't be happy without my shirt.

He's not gonna be happy without his shirt.

He won't be happy without his shirt.

He won't be happy without his shirt.






- Beautiful shirt. - My shirt.
Beautiful shirt.


























They bought a small house in the Bronx, and it was in this house... that Abraham Lincoln was born once, which surprised his father enough.




Let's give the little girl a big hand!


My dear friends... if only I could tell you what kind of pink shade... everything appears today.


The old lady seems to be getting drunk.








My dear friends.


























Now, ladies and gentlemen... the first musical number we present to you... will be the beginning and the end of a very...
We need music.
The first musical number of our program was to be a picolo solo.



Sister Pastrami, what's the first number?




I know all friends wish me the best. I can't tell you how much I appreciate it.
I think I'll be honest if I say this is the happiest moment of my life.










And I gave him a check for a thousand dollars this morning.
At least it was my personal check.





- Well, happy day, old man!


















You want me to find a good hiding place?
















When you leave, you have to take a lot of money.




























"What a beautiful girl!"









"They're all so beautiful, but I feel sorry for them."


"Yosiki, I love this new geisha!"
Old Fujimoto fell under Ori's spell, too.
"My sweet little Ori!"
"I don't want your presents!











"I've loved Ori a long time since we first met."













Dear Sakuma, I will never marry Ori.















You broke my last bottle!




This morning, his hands were working somehow without a hard time.













Banneck's Usant shared a questionable transition across Fromveer. Usant was the largest and most habitable island of the Archipelago.

But she was in a very bad relationship with her neighbor, Ambroise's mother.




He enjoyed a great deal of respect and appreciation from the public.











We need to get him to Usante.



So, my children, we need another sailor to go to Banneck.



In the morning.


















Dreaming of money and glory, he was even willing to commit a crime.
























We'll be happy!"

"Of course, my dear, if you cover the costs of publishing."
"Here's a good note, confirmed by my grandmother."

"Good confirmation.














"Nina, I present to you my friend, Beletsky, "the great talent you've met."


"Sorry, dear Henrik.
I just got called to an important conference."



We'll be happy to put it on.


"Honey, aren't you happy now?"












"My dear Director, you probably agree with me that the main role should be played by Mrs. Zhegota."



"Go alone, my dears, I must attend the conference."













"From now on, my dear, nothing will separate us."
















Well, my dear, why would I leave you?







"Honey, I'm waiting for you in extreme impatience.




































The new German interactions were based on censorship reports.

The 1929 film studio presents its first experiment.





These five people are standing in front of the camera for the first time in their lives.


Last month, Brigitte Borchert sold 150 records in a small candy shop.













"Okay, tomorrow... Sunday!"







"My best friend!"

















New week.







You still haven't broken your mail for this morning.






Anyway, this is the last post office I've ever had.










Put all the force to the last ounce... to win by the end of the year.























I'm familiar with a young man who's looking forward to becoming a writer, and he's already written the first act of tragedy... which will be an ornament for one of the teachers.


The stepfather needs leaders.





You, Miller, do you know how much you need you?





- I'm ready.









Okay.
Okay, I'm gonna go.








Put on a uniform, be ready to report.

I bet a place like this is gonna get you in good shape.
You should be ready for a long march.











It's the best couple in the whole army!












Jimmelstos, we're certainly glad to see you.





- Where did you get such a good uniform?


- My dear, you're screaming.














You've made a good mess.







And the first thing you're gonna do is forget everything you've ever known before.
















Work, that's what we need. Okay!












































































- When was the last time we ate?








There's no better peasant in the world.






We've been living here since yesterday morning on hay and razor blades.
We're ready to buy food.
































- I'd be happy to give you...



















Much better than getting a hole in the belly.
If any of you stay alive, I'll pick him up by morning.



You better accompany your troops, Daddy.










When we get back, I'll get you all some good and clean underwear.


We need to watch out for small-calibre shells.














































- But where, in the name of...















































The fire's getting worse.




















If we have to fight, why don't we fight?








- We need to split this up between the two of us.

We still need oil.














































That's good.









































That's a good idea.

- We can get him his stuff. - Okay!
































And every decent Kaiser needs at least one war, or he won't be famous.


They need a war.








As soon as there's a new war.
- We're gonna have to seal up a big field...


And one day... we need to get all the kings together with their ministers and generals... to put the fields in the middle of the fields in the same underpants... and let them decide on the truncheons in their hands.
The best country wins. That's right.















I told you, you can't bring such a good watch.








'Cause the food here feels like it's okay.
































- I'm sure you'll feel better.







- Goodbye. - Okay, Paul.


I'm willing to walk barefoot on barbed wire if it does him any good.



Good boots aren't easy to find.









































Look at it yourself, I have to go to the O.R.
Operation after operation, five o'clock in the morning.

I'm sure it'll be 20 by morning...

Yeah, it's really good today.





Why do you have to teach that nonsense?
One day, you're gonna get shot and it's gonna be useless.
















Still, it's a good invention.


Bad?



It was... beautiful.
I have a big garden of cherry at home.
















Yeah, there are worse things than rubbing boots. Look.

































Can someone get General Ludendorf a nice, comfortable chair?

- Do you want to go to court? There's gonna be a big offensive tonight... and I'm happy to get rid of it. I want to.











Be ready, guys.
















































You're in a much better position than I am.




















Your first time.























- Give me your best sausages.












Look at those lungs, little shoes.










We can wash our clothes, wash our clothes. Okay.









- We can bathe anyway. - Okay.


Now we need to wash up. - Wash?




Ah, but think of her beautiful eyes! - Oh!
- Or her beautiful hair.















You guys stay on this side or you're gonna get in big trouble.









In war and love, all means are good.











































Nice, new coffins.











They say there's always good care and good food.












Sorry, honey.






When you're ready to stretch your legs, they get you out of the way... to free the bed.


But suppose he gets better?














- Sister, is it bad?
- Nope. No, we're gonna be okay.

















































I'll kill myself at the earliest opportunity.












I live over there. Paul, I'm so glad.



- It's gonna be okay now.

It's gonna be... okay.











































Your things are ready, Paul.






It's a pleasure to meet you, young man. It's a pleasure to meet you.




Here with food, of course, it's worse.

But the best is always for our soldiers!

Best for our soldiers.
But... you're gonna have to give the French a good kick out of it!
And if you guys want to go home... let me show you what you need to do before you can go home.

































Good to see you, Professor.


And in support of what I said, here's one of the first people to leave.

Who left everything to serve in the first year of the war... one of the iron youths who made Germany invincible on the battlefield.






Just a few words... just tell them how much they need them there.




I can't tell you anything new.









I've heard you quote that old nonsense... filling the ranks of iron youth with new young heroes.
Do you still think it's beautiful and sweet to die for your homeland?

The first artillery shelling taught us more.

When it comes to the death of a country... it's better not to die at all!


You asked me to tell them how much they needed.
















































I put two pairs of calsons... brand-new... in your ranch.
They'll make you feel good and warm.

That's so sweet of you.
Good night... my son.
Good night, Mom.























I'm glad you found her.





It's not much like the old 2nd Company.


































































I told her it wasn't that bad... 'cause we're always together.





Wait a minute. Looks like the old bread cart broke down.



It's not that bad.

- Good luck.

















And my first artillery shelling.

















































































But it needs to be done immediately. Come on.
Oh, I'm good here, too.





You're acting like a little kid.








Okay, Mac, okay.
Look, honey, you're too strong to put anyone outside the ring.
And a fighter like you won't get in the fight first.

































He's playing the poor little innocent sheep who needs protection.












Thank you so much for your congratulations.




I wanted you to hear it first.

This is my first major case.


















I'm telling you. I won my first big case.



All right, the verdict was six cents.














But I'm happy, and I'm very happy that I won this case, and...







We're gonna file a lawsuit and win the case, believe me, you can't do more...





























I need witnesses.




I'm saying I need witnesses.





















He didn't, I hit him first.


He hit you first.
No, I hit him first.

If my brother says he hit you first, then he hit you first.


















I don't have anyone, and I need a good manager...
But you have a good lawyer.
Of course you have a good lawyer.





Well, do you need a manager?









Okay, fine.

















Even worse, it's a disaster.










Then he stood up to Vale Dwyer and fell again in the first round, but he was saved from knockout by the bell of the judge on the count of eight.

His last fight in the city of Racine was with Left Schnitzler.


It was his last fight in the city of Racine.










































And don't yell like the first time you get in your eye.




























Good morning.

Good morning.
Good morning.


















This is article 428 and it could be worse under article 513.














Okay, that can be arranged.













That's good.







He who laughs last laughs well.





Didn't I tell you? Was that a big chance?





A signed agreement is worth more than that.

Eat better.


















Then it's okay.




































They go into battle, wait for the first one to open up to strike.









McCloskey's still calm.





Yeah, well, I'm not gonna miss it and I'm gonna blow your nose in the morning, and I'm not gonna miss it.

































Okay.


I came here just to tell you how happy I am.















You know, he's a big waste.




And I'd love for you to come.







Only a good lawyer can get a good boxer on the right track.






And besides the fact that you're a great fighter, you're still very beautiful, except for your nose.



Honestly. It's better this way.




















Okay...
Good night.
Good night, Jerry.









Didn't I tell you you were so handsome?














No wonder I can't find you in the last two weeks.




Nice nose.
Beautiful lady.
It'll be a beautiful end for you.



That's a very good idea, isn't it, Fanny?
I'll give you a better idea.


And he doesn't need a prostitute like you to kill him.




And you're just a big moron.





She's heard worse than that. I know.


I can do worse than that.

I'm not gonna let you talk bad about my future wife.






















There's no better actress than you, Fanny!
You've been exhausted for the past month.










Yes, darling.

























Find manager McCloskey, and tell him they can take a rematch, and the sooner, the better.



Okay, just don't worry.









































It's beautiful!



















That's because I loved his old nose more.


























Well, honey, don't be too late.

Okay.




You better get out of here before he kicks you out.






















The following prices are very important for sales: 25,600 per four grains plus 1.15 is $29,440. You have to hold on to that price, or we won't get any profit.
"The first lunch call in the restaurant car"!
My dear son! Your handkerchiefs are under your shirts.




















Mom. Mommy, darling, my love will pass through the years with you.



Lonely in the big city, isn't it?






It was really nice meeting you!






You may be right, but I'll always think of him as a little bitch.
Well, if he sells at a bad price, we'll make ends meet sometime!











It's better to be deaf than blind, isn't it?



















If you marry the person you're thinking about, everything's gonna be okay.



Dear parents, I married a wonderful girl, a waitress at a big restaurant.






It's the most beautiful bride bouquet I've ever seen!







The reapers will come tomorrow morning!





















I have to see her first!

















Kate, let's forget this fight and be happy.

If you marry the person you're thinking about, everything's gonna be okay.



















I'll treat you better than old Tastin lets Lem deal with you!


It's no use talking to that old devil!





If that's what you think, I'll be happy to prove that I'm capable of more!












You managed to get your wife, but you need more than a marriage certificate and an engagement ring to keep her!

I'll shoot the first one who tries to leave!
















There are worse things than shooting someone.











Remember when we first walked this way, how happy we were?


















It's a lovely car, one day, I'd like to drive one of these.
It's a beautiful ring.










Tieko, stay calm.

It's better for me to live with a girl like you.


























I'm glad I met a girl like you.






You found a good man.













Love isn't a problem, but you shouldn't be so bad.






I don't know, he came out this morning and didn't come back.




A little gift for our boss.




I'm bad, but my heart is sincere.









It would be better for you and Yasue to work and live honestly.














I'm gonna have to find a new job.



Now you're working for a good society.












The next case should be important, but it can't be too hard.


The real thing is, forget about the past.




It's a big deal, we're all gonna win.



I didn't think you were both so blind that you wouldn't see a good thing.





I'd rather you saw me when I had a better job.







I'm sorry it happened, the first day we met again.






It's not that bad.

















That's my best brush.










- If you rent this studio, remember, I'll be the first tenant.












You think you're a good host?












































I don't need it.

















How did you get here at 4:00 a.m. all by yourself?



- This party will teach you a good lesson.





That's it, okay.










- Let's say you go, and you need a girl.









- Okay.











- He's tall, handsome, and young.










That's good.






Okay. - Let him send the car, silly.


Okay.
I'll be ready.


- Because even best friends don't tell him that.




























- John, darling.








Why, John? Jerry made a lot of beautiful things.
- Well, I've built a lot of beautiful railways.









- You old stubby pudding...

And as for you, I officially declare that this art business of yours will turn you into a beautiful jelly.


- That's a pretty good word, isn't it?

It's a beautiful thing.






Okay, chin up, Miss Arnold.






















Look, big boy.

You asked me to pose for you, and now you don't even know what position you want.
- I don't need any pose.
























Billy, have you seen Jerry's new model?























- Okay, okay.









- Hey, honey.
- Hello, darling.










- You bought a new suit?
- What do you want to call your new creation, Jerry?


- She's a little funny, isn't she, darling?


Maybe I can offer you a better name.









- Old stock.


- Jerry, how long are you gonna be busy with this new painting? - I don't know.





- I have a better idea.



- Honey, that means yes.
What a fine and easy husband you'll be in charge. Look, Jerry.







You remember that nice place we went to Chicago... come on, I'll show you a nice girl, darling.







































I'm a little red hat.
It was his idea for a good time.
Do you know, silly, when the first restaurant opened in Greece?















I have to see stars, big, beautiful stars.





Look, call me at 4, okay?













Good morning. What's up, Jerry?



And I think our old friend Napoleon is still home.
If that's true, I think I could spend this beautiful Sunday morning pulling the Nappy.

You'd better go.





Okay! - Anything?

- Hope is the last to die. - Oh, yeah.











- I lost that wallet the first time I met Kay.
I found it on the toilet table this morning.









- There was a little red school...














Good morning, Josephine.






















- I'm going there soon. - Have a good trip.












Good buddy, this Napoleon.







- Okay, I'll remember that.




















- I'm wearing a new dress.











But the first night you slept, you looked like another woman.
















His face is new.
It was beautiful and noble.




















Beautiful.
























There are good strawberry cakes here.


- Big or small?
- Do you think I like small cups?

- I didn't want to tell you, Mr. Standish, but I'm terribly glad that Kay wasn't here when you called tonight.





















Look at these cute little oysters.
Okay, Min.


It was beautiful.















- He didn't need me.




- You've never kept anything from me before, darling.



I wish I'd never met him.









- It's an old suite, isn't it?








- Hey, honey.
I'm not distracting you from anything important?



























- No, I'd love to. Be careful.





And people look like little insects.




- What's good about them?
- A lot of good.

And they always find the right port.



It's good to do.















Is it that important to you?












I wish I was dead.





- No, I'm bad.










It's a great job.



- Tell me, am I beautiful?

- I'm prettier than... those who've been here before?












- Okay.


It's beautiful.




















I think you'd better stay here tonight.









If you feel better, we'll start early in the morning.



I hope you'll be comfortable on this old couch.
You're the first young lady to sleep in this studio.











Good night.
- Good night.
- Well, good night.

- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- You don't have to do this.




















- Good morning, Jerry.
- Good morning, Father.








Doesn't the railways work this morning?







Paris is a big art center.












- It's more important to you than getting married?




































































- You think he told me something new that I didn't even know?



You took my wallet the night we first met, didn't you?
I know who you are. You're just a dirty little blackmailer.


You're just a little...
















- It's like I was born again this morning.

I'm ready to wait for you forever to be with you.














We won't need the money.
We won't need anyone.






- Calm down, sweetheart.



























- Okay.

















Never mind, darling.





Okay.












She's been posing a little for the last couple of months.












































































- I'm ready to believe that.
















He doesn't want his father, he doesn't want you.






He better be poor.

I wish he was hopelessly ill, and everyone forgot about him.
You think I'm that bad?
- I think you're not so bad in general, my dear.






























But only one of us is ready to let him go.

And I will always remember you, my dear.





- Goodbye, my dear.










































- I'll be ready.

















Come on, darling. - But I'm not ready yet.
















Okay, I have to go.


Well... first... we wake up every morning at dawn.









And I'm gonna read you the last papers until you fall asleep.

Like the first time I met you.




I'm so happy I'm jumping.








- Okay.






Lots of beautiful girls like you.











But you're gonna have to smile at least once in a while.

I know my business better than anyone.











- Okay.






Come on. I need to get upstairs to Mr. Jerry Strong.



- Very good, Miss Pinkham.

- Okay, Miss Pinkham.







It's very important. Please.


- Okay, here's the text:














- What do you want, miss?














It's very important.











It's okay, honey.
Open your eyes, darling.



Look at me, sweetheart.
Open your eyes, darling.

It's gonna be okay, honey.













You're so beautiful you found a good place in town?




She's got a good place there...

Well... she'll quickly restore the good color of her face... March 21st day of St Benedict's.








It's a good thing Tonka's back, 'cause these guys started eating.
























To be a little kid again, the courage of Edie...





































I knew one Tonka was a beautiful woman. I wouldn't comfort a person sentenced to death...




I'm telling you, he spent his last night with her...







You're not that good.
























Oh, good, hot.


By old friendship, it's not, it's love.
Let's kiss. Am I good for you?


There's nothing good about these Bavarians.
















Boom-boom. Miss. Or as your countrymen say, "bad things."































































































































































Happy eh, kid.

My wife is so beautiful.
























Okay, then we'll both play.






Okay, let's play again.







When will you take Paris? (A German obsession in World War I)



























We'll have to wait all morning.











This morning...


I've been running all over this place since yesterday morning.


Don't worry about it, make some coffee.










































We're all sick right now. Mom.
Tell me something good.



























"Hello, dear Homeland!"












You seem happy to be going back to the front.
Yeah, I'm glad I'm going back to the front.






You know, I'm so happy.



































It doesn't matter who they're into.




It's great that you came back before the new mess started.






All the information confirms our assumption that the enemy will attack in the morning.















































- Can I choose who goes? - Okay.















Yes, sir. 522-1 01 : 22 : 15.389 - 01 : 22 : 25.378 World War I : Shellshock - shell concussion.














Say something good, for God's sake!




We're all sick.













































We went out together this morning and called four more.


Although the priest is a wonderful cellist.






































How nice...
























He's a sweet, shy guy, not too young, but too naive.





I am touched by the opportunity to present to you, on this happy occasion, heartfelt congratulations from the entire company.
We're all the same big family you run as a father.



Nice toast.








I'd better go straight home.









In life, it's important to have fun and know the right people.











I need them today.











Nothing, darling.









He's much better.





He's got good manners and he can be nice whenever he wants.




Just yesterday, he said he wanted to buy me a beautiful dress.
I'd look better then.



































My first husband wouldn't be caught wasting his time with paint.




My Alexi was so handsome in a frontal uniform.














This is the artist we met when Dede got sick, and we took Santa home.




It's a really beautiful view.














It's a good thing tomorrow he'll bring the money he promised.



















It's not as nasty as old Marshal.






It's better to do it neatly, but not at all, especially since you're not a rookie in this case.


When I see a good guy like you in a nice car next to an old wallet, don't tell me it's your cousin from the province, and you save on gas.






If I needed green, I had to be strict with her before she married her.






















































Are you happy?



Half the first one!







Let me. I want it as much as you do, but you need to go home. Be reasonable.











Honey, Maurice almost got up when he saw the light.



I need some money, baby.





















They say they're good, so they have to be worth something.






















What do you want?
















She's a wonderful artist.





















And since you gave them to me, darling... do you think it's right to sell them that way?


I'm happy to come out with you today, Dede.















Now that I'm someone, I don't want to be them, and I just want to be with you in a little cabin.
Sure, but I need to see Valenstein tonight.









Clara, we need to talk seriously.

You meet a high society and we've reached out to a lot of good collectors, so I guess it's time for you to draw some portraits.

Why? We know what's good for our artists.
And it's a great opportunity.

He's rich, and if you miss this chance, you're gonna get worse.


Play us something good.

I need to talk to her.











Clara, darling, this is Monsieur Dugode.


It's quieter here.








I should've asked for more.

We need to make a dress.
You're the one who says you have to come out.






You're leaving already, Dede, honey?




Kiss me better.






Okay.









That's why I need to talk to you.





































It's better to just leave.

















And when you get what you need, leave quietly.



















That's better.
























We need him.





Am I such a bad company?












Okay, darling.
Let's not talk about it anymore.














And you had to give the old weirdo a key?














Next morning




I didn't know that women were so unhappy and that there were always men around who were willing to take advantage of their mistakes.







I need her.










































































They usually cause trouble, it's better to have a quiet home life.
Your confession hasn't shed any light on this case.



I need to see the magistrate.

Okay, you're a lawyer, so let them understand.














I'd find a better one.
Lulu was a beautiful girl.













Oh, well, I've had a few troubles like all the kids, even the best.




And it was better than washing floors or working in a factory.

















All right, monsieur.





First witness.

















The only thing that matters here is the defendant.














Good to see you again.







It's probably better for her.








Life is beautiful. Come on.














This morning my father was supposed to read you a farewell sermon, but he's sick, as you all know, and today I can't be with you.




I was talking about a beautiful, triumphant victory that I come with God's salvation.

But you thought it necessary to summon another younger man to guide you and serve you.

































I don't have to prepare myself.






















































































If you can sell it, it's fine, and it's bad if it doesn't do you any good.





And just like a little microphone in front of me, my voice sounds to you... Mrs. Johnson!

♪ I'm telling you on a wave of creation ♪ ♪ I'm in the hearts and souls of those who are ready for his transmission ♪
I brought you the good news...


























A cup of good coffee.











Beethoven wrote his best symphony while he was deaf.
Oscar Eild wrote his best poem, sitting in jail.












I'll tell you what you need.





































































































































































And you know as well as I do, I don't need to hiccup, I'm allilujah.













I'm gonna need a paddle game!
I need sincerity and passion.




So, if you want to regulate me, you'd better learn what I'm saying.















When I'm talking to people, I have to make it look like I'm eating, or I can't do it.


That's not good.









And how much did it cost us to grease the politicians and get permission from me to eat that old barn?





















I'm in town now, and I've got a lot of old ones in front of me.









Take your old one in front of me. I'm an Ornsby.

Give these hillbilly people more than they need for their money.



I'm even prettier when you're dancing.






- And you need him?



I thought you wouldn't mind if I told her the good news.



As your chief manager, I dare to report that since we introduced a new scheme and stopped collecting gruesome money at the temple, but began to spread to our idiots,



- It's too expensive for us.





















It would be very nice of you to run away and ask him to come.






Of course I'll be happy to help.




































































But I know my sister's voice as well as her face.














Shouldn't we have brought it now?

- Yeah, but why would you do that?



















And why don't you listen to a really good music?














I'm sick now.











































































I'll be happy to do you a favor.










































I thank you, and so does El. I'll be at the temple in the morning.


I think you'll be better off working at home.









I'm... I'm glad I saved your life.


And drown your sins in an old-fashioned genie, and don't miss the great, one-and-a-half-time monster.
Oh, my darlings!
























































I don't need company me.
























I've been feeling pretty good lately, haven't I?








And if you could come out, I need to change my clothes.


We're back on the front page.









You're as good as me. I know he's been drinking too much. He was depressed, he was hallucinating.






- And you need change.




We don't need them anymore, I'm done.







And you still need him?


We don't need crooks.




And, uh, yeah, where I feel good.


But I have some kind of right to a first mortgage.



I've had a crush on you since I first saw you. Yeah.



















- No, it's not that bad.


































My friends, my world has become beautiful since our guest came in.









It's my great pleasure to introduce me to this... this bonivan, this sophisticated hang, this experienced traveler, the first among Don J. Wants, the first among the Omeo... Aloisius K. Eucaliptus.











































- What do you need?










And the title: Sister Halon sent me to the watering ground. I got up at 4:00 a.m. on purpose to bring you an ezemble.








Monte is arlo, champagne, roulette... and your old house in front of me, ornsby, so it doesn't work like a duck.























































And one day I'll be back like a prodigal I'm a daughter.











Our father in heaven... your first command was, "Let there be light."






















You're a good me, you're a real me.
















And so... is this my old friend Daniel who entered the lion cage?























































































That's nice, isn't it?































And remember: I need to say goodbye to my sister as the most powerful performance she's ever given.















I'd be sad myself, but it's all for us to have a good time together.









He's so happy like a boy.






























And I can see you. You're beautiful, just like I've always introduced you to L.

















I'd love to, but I can't.
I have a train to catch.


I have one thing to do... please don't ask me to go on stage.













But these things happen to me, and you have to believe in them.

People need me.


That's good, John.


























































































- Don't worry. I'm ready to fight.



























Unfortunately, her education leaves much to be desired.

My son-in-law is certainly a good man.















I'll keep an eye on you first.



Be diligent and obedient to get a good certificate.











First we get your uniform, it's ready for the castle lady.


- Okay, Marga.
Tomorrow morning you'll bring me some water to wash.













































It's gotta be tight.









A new dress for every girl is too much. That's what Fraulein von Kesten thinks.














That's good.




Okay.






















































We need to cut costs.








They need discipline, not luxury.































We're gonna sing the first verse of the anthem "Take my hand."













The first person in charge will be severely punished.
































You don't have to tell yourself things are bad here.

You don't have to make yourself feel like you're never gonna be happy here.

You have to tell yourself that you'll be very happy here.




I'll be back to say good night.






- All right, everybody ready?








"My dear, my dear Mia




















We need to learn more German classics.









She's always among the best in my class.
Although I don't feel comfortable talking about it myself, until now, the results of my training have always been good.
Yeah, very good.



But please don't exceed your duties.








It's his brother." The most beautiful of his wives was Rachel.
"And with little Joseph and Benjamin...






That's a lovely story.
Okay. Sit down.

Edelgarde, first verse




Okay. Sit down.



Not ready again.












I'm not feeling well anymore.




Tell me, don't you have any new stuff from home with you?








Maybe we can find you a new sock somewhere.
It's a bit long, but it can be shortened.












No, but I have to cry sometimes.





When you wish us a good night before bed and go to your room, I lie down and stare in the dark for a long time at the closed door of your room.







Don't act like a little girl.
Be a good comrade.



I'm so happy!





Are you happy?



Thank you very much.


"The country needs steel people."

















"Dear parents, it's a terrible Sunday again.









Very good.


Okay.
Very good.

Very good.















Oh Manuela, you're so beautiful!




























Nice words!










































You made a good mess!
Well, it's not that bad.



"So, finally, he's here, a happy moment.
"And these lovely hands will be touched by Carlos."




































You have a great talent.
If you try hard, you'll make a very good actress.
I'm very happy for you, Manuela.
The kids were playing out of the blue today. - That was so sweet!
It's a good opportunity for girls to learn Schiller's poems.






I'm glad that even without my help, you deserve the applause of the school's teachers and guests.



But discipline needs to be tougher, tougher, tougher!










Okay, okay.







- I'm so happy!















I'm so happy!













Sometimes a person needs a drink.















My dear, you're not gonna risk your position for this kid, are you?












You're the worst of all our students.































































- Thank you, okay.



- Okay, thanks.



This is our new English woman, Miss Evans.








What a beautiful view - so many happy children


- Yes, my dear, I remember.
Dear Director, I'd like to see Beckendorf.





Dear Director, now Meinhardis








Dear Director, I'd like to talk to you about nursery.











I know Manuela and others better than you.


















Manuela's a good friend!

At this age, girls need someone to support them.







Dear Fraulein von Bernburg...

Okay.













So let's not talk about it anymore.






Madam Director thought it was the best thing to do.





It's better for you.




You need to come to your senses.
You need to heal, whatever it takes.








Goodbye, dear Fraulein von Bernburg.



I'm ready to answer for that.

























You're just saying she needs help.










With as many stars as I've ever seen in a movie.




















I'll send my best man right away.





Little bastards!




- Okay.











We don't need anything!























































Thank you very much!









What a shame to hurt that little Norwegian!




















You're very successful with women...
I love all the beautiful girls!


































I have to ask you something important.








































Is your article ready?








Here's the first article about last night's ball.















What a good night it was last night!























"Pearls," my dear!











Just the last part.





































Good idea, Billy.
















Thank you very much.










A robot's heart will never win a beautiful lady or a fat turkey.







When I got up this morning, I kind of...
Why didn't you wear my new plaid suit for that?














- Okay, I'll talk to her.











I need some money right now, Nick.






I wouldn't ask if I didn't need them so much.


- I'm happy to help, baby.
I'm happy to help.



















Six, and he needs eight.









































Six, and he needs five.














You need to be in a big game in town.




How long does it take to get into the game?





Look, why don't we step in and put Nick in this big game?







Look, maybe I'd better if I didn't send her, so I'm not gonna lose anything anyway.







Blondie, how do you feel about you and me going to the big city?










Well, now I've got this big money in my pocket.





















- Good morning.
- Good morning.






















It's a quarter or better if you have one.
These are very good ones.



Well, they're good.























- Okay.
























Even better, strategizing with a six.








It's awful to see a pretty girl like you lose your job.











I put my eye on that big box of candy.



















I'm glad you like it here.



It's one of the best sea kitchens I've ever been to.
























Okay, Nick.


























Well, okay, if you insist.


















I'm definitely glad to meet you after all these stories about you and your luck, Mr. Venizelos.

- Okay, Nick.











- Nice to meet you, John.

- The good old River?






Nice to meet you, Nick.
- Nice to meet you, Schultz.







Very good, Hicory.















Sure, we're not playing turquoise, but we don't need to argue here.

- Okay.


Bring half a dozen new wells.





Are these cards bad?

It's just an old hairdresser's habit.


Okay, Nick.
















And a little two. A couple of aces.



- Hang on to the last one.












- Old one-for-the-other Schultz.





- Good morning, Mr. Venizelos.
- Good morning.





















It's awful good to see you.

Hicory, it's so nice of you to send me that champagne.





- Good to see you.





I'm glad you stopped by for another game.
I figured you'd be the best company.






- Okay.






















Okay, I'm staying.




















Okay, I'll equalize it.


The kings are good, I suppose.





























Well, good.

































It's a big town, Hiram.






All right.












- Good to see you.

It's good to see you again.










It's gonna be okay.








I'm sorry, Mr. Amenoppopolus, but I had to talk to an old friend.







Nice weather.

Yeah, I'm glad it's not raining.
The track is in the right condition for high speeds.





I made a little bet on no regrets.

Okay.
How's it going lately?






And how long does it take to be in this big game?











So if we put him in a big game, I'm sure he can win a lot of money.
Tell you what, Alex: If it's good enough for you, it's good for me to take the risk.























- Okay, you want money for them?








I don't think she's very good either.



- I'm not bad at this, kid.










Nice to meet you.


















Okay.





Okay.








Come down and buy half a dozen new wells.













Okay.










You better put them in the center, 'cause that's how much I'm gonna bet.



Well, they're good, and I'm clean.






































I suppose you're very happy this morning, Mr Venizelos.









Perhaps you can give me a little advice.











First thing I'd do is send her flowers.










Okay.

And take these first two suitcases there.




You'll get the other half on the other side of the road if you're a good boy.

I'm not gonna be good, I'm gonna be perfect.











I wish the old barbershop company could see us now.








If I lose, I'll go back to the old barbershop and play eagle tail with Snake Iz.






















- Just fine.




















You always had a bad memory.
















We close it one night, and it opens next in a new place.











- Anything new on this case?



Good to see you, Sam.















That little macaroni, Nick, he's got us both in trouble.













Send your wife. He's gonna fall for any old cat.



We want to know that you can respond to this last D.A.'s attack.











You know, it reminds me of a small sawmill that was in my hometown of Irontown.




You've got more brains than one person, Nick.















Thank you very much.










- I'm the one you want.









I need 500.








































































































Thank you very much.
















But you have to admit that their society is terribly good.
































































- I feel like a new man.



You need a little support.
- That's awfully sweet of you, but I can't...















Not before you get better, and there'll be blood on those cheeks.





Now be a good girl.

I'm glad you got rid of that ghost.











- I have good news for you, Snake Ice.

I moved the furniture here for the last time.
I'm glad to hear that.

- Good morning.
- Good morning.

- Just fine.
Okay.



























And the longer you stay here, the better it will be for me.




What's the matter, sweetheart?






































































































What's the matter, sweetheart?




































He's got good manners for a cop.







You probably don't know about the old Puritan law that classified the race form as a gambling attribute.










































But I'm not happy.













- Any last statement, Nick?




























Okay, Poole.






- Beautiful day, don't you think?





- Very good.













The old weirdos are ready for another shock.










Let's call it a good side.

We'll call it the bad side.

























- My dear friend, be reasonable.






















All right, sir.


All right, sir.






Sometimes the doctor has to hurt you a little, so you'll be okay later.

And if the doctor thinks a little surgery is necessary, then... you don't have to be afraid, do you?






















- Okay, miss.









Good to see you.












Jekyll is paying a lot of attention to his failed patients.

Nonsense, my dear.



Anyway, I promised Harry the first waltz.


You know, I'm really glad Jekyll's late.




Racing is good, Jekyll, but calculation is better.































Less than half.







If you weren't drunk, you wouldn't be so beautiful.

If you weren't so beautiful, I'd wait...





Honey, I want this with all my heart.




You deserve it, sweetheart.


I love you with all my heart. I'm having fun, happy.


Honey, I'm gonna get your dad to let us get married now.










Honey, I'd like this moment to turn into an eternity...





I love you, honey.


- My dear friend.







- Glad you could make it.
- Good night, Muriel.


- Goodbye, my dear.
- Good night, General.

- See you tomorrow for tea, my dear.

- Good night.
- Good night.


I'm sorry, sir, but you'd make us very happy... if you'd set an earlier date for our wedding.






















- Good night.
- Good night, sir.
- Good night, Lanyon.
- Good night, sir.
Arevoir, my dear.

- Good night, Muriel.
- Good night.


I wish I had strangled that old walrus.















One day London's gonna light up a filament lamp... and it's gonna be so beautiful that even you're gonna get hurt.








First door on the left, up the stairs.













I wish he hadn't done it!







And you don't have to hold that tight.
That's not very good.

That's awfully sweet of you to look after me.










I don't know the best place to sleep.
Okay.











- Good night.







Maybe I should have called a constable.





































All right, sir.

































Marry me now, sweetheart.
You have no idea how much I need you.







Honey, I was afraid to tell you... but my dad's taking me to Buff tomorrow.





Tell him we'll do it, sweetheart.

And we're gonna be so happy... that even the French are gonna envy us.





- Honey, don't you love me enough... to wait a little longer?

Of course I love you enough, darling.



















I'm looking for a lady who's taking over this little nest.


If I needed her, I'd try Variet.
































He's a bad joke.






I saw you as soon as you walked in, my dear.





To you, darling.












My darling, you deserve more than that.
You need to live in places more worthy of you.


Sit down, my dear.

You must have a place to put your beautiful body... gold hair and a white face.











































Forgive me, my dear.

























Have a good day.















I have a little surprise for you.












- What do you want?


- Okay, sir.
What did that old cat want?













I'm not good enough for you!
I'm not as handsome and good-looking a gentleman as... these handsome, decent gentlemen that it's nice to see and...




My dear, sweet, pretty bird, tell me you hate me.














I have some bad news for you, my dear.
Very bad.

And damn if you're not happy about it.



But any joy in this world is short-lived, my dear... and your most questionable... because you don't even know when I'll be back.








My dear, you surprise me.






No, my dear, I'm not going anywhere right now.




Last night's always the warmest, you know.




- Is that okay with you, darling?





Sing, my little dove!


Look, sweetheart, how tight your necklace is.
You don't have to take it so long.
'Cause she's gonna hurt your beautiful, tender leg.




- Very good, sir.





























Have a good day, miss.













I'm not gonna need anyone else, and I'm not gonna love anyone... as much as I need you, and as much as I love you.

I was really sick, honey.










Oh, honey.
























Harry needs me.



It's the most important wish of my life.
















Very good.



God, you made me happy!



See you tomorrow, my dear.


Poole, my dear friend!
- I'm a very happy man!
- I'm glad to hear it!

I'm happy!















- What does she want?















All that matters is that you got it.












I need help, help!

- What happened, honey?




















You're good, I know.



I'm not as bad as you think... and I'm cute.


















Excuse me, sir, is this gonna be a big event?








- Okay.

- I'm glad you're here.
My dear, of course, I wish you great happiness.















On a night like this, my dear?


Come on, darling.
































Now listen, my dear.








That's it, sweetheart.



















My dear, I can't say how sorry I am... but I hope with all my heart that Jekyll can explain everything.
- Good night, sir.
- Good night, Lanyon.


















- He said it was very important, sir.















- It's important.




















For the last time, Lanyon, will you let me go?
And for the last time, no.
Very good, Lanyon.






- Very good, Lanyon.











You've committed a very great sin.





























































Honey, are you okay?



Honey, why are you so hurt?











Honey, I'm begging you, tell me.







Honey, is that all you wanted to tell me?







Don't hide anything from me, honey.


Sweetheart.




















My poor, sweet, love, don't talk.








- Sweetheart.




















































































Yeah... I killed Morange my best friend.




Moranja, when I received the order... to find the old trails linking Tunisia to Nigeria.



























































































Oh, dear lieutenant!











Parisanina. The last Parisian...






And now you see, dear lieutenant, that you can live here... then it was a real disaster.


It's a great reason to open up some real bottles.




It's the only European here, except you, my dear...













Soon enough, he'll be in a better world. Too much kiffa...

















All women, my dear friend...


Cheers, my dear lieutenant.






















Let's take one last look at Mr. Torstenson.
Why the last one?
What a beautiful face he's got right now!








































Oh, Captain, if I were the first love for a woman...








Is it good of you to scare me like that?












When you become queen, Clementine, I hope you... always have a place for an old friend.
It's a beautiful Paris wedding.







Not a word, my dear lieutenant.
































I need to...





























































I need six men on motorcycles.


























Okay.
















Now you're happy and happy...

































































The print has five nails with a large hat placed half round on the right heel.













Good morning.




Old story.

This time I have a good description of him.





See those nails with the big hat?








- arrest the first person whose shoes leave marks like this.





















I don't need promises.
I need Arsen Lupin.





But this time, your failure will be the last.
























My dear friend, if I can't pay, what difference does it make if it's half a penny or 10 million?











I'll make you a room and pay you in the morning.







And the sets are beautiful, aren't they?

Is everything ready?
All the doors and windows are under surveillance, and four of our best guests.












And yet, isn't Paris beautiful in spring?















But, dear lady, didn't you break them when you stepped on my bed?












Then you're the star of that new Russian cry where these fun songs about hunger, snow, and wolves sing.



















It's very beautiful.

























Okay, if you insist...












Very happy.





I don't dance very well, but I'm ready to try.

He's my best friend.






So my little tour is off.





















































That's nice of you.






















































Yeah, like a little badge or something.





Don't!










Dear sir, if you are you, I will apologize to you as sincerely as you did.










You'd do me a big favor if you could come right now.









Thank you very much.








































My dear friend, this is a very clever decision.




I'm glad you're here.



























My dear Gerchard, all my apologies will not be enough...








Beautiful.













Okay.























I completely forgot about my two dear guests.















And I'll give you a couple of good phone numbers.


















No, not such a piece of cheese, but a graceful, charming, sensitive, extremely attractive little piece of cheese.






All right, sir.



























Okay.
















I'm glad you came.




I'm glad you liked it.







Not here, darling.








Honey...





When I woke up this morning, there was a beautiful bracelet in my room and this note...

"My dear Countess!
Beautiful women shouldn't wear fake diamonds.




Okay.













I'm sorry, sir, but the messenger said it was very important.






























How kind of you to be so interested in this.
But, my dear child, we are all interested.













You don't have to.












Oh, great.
Beautiful.









See you in the morning.
















There's got to be something to do with that.



















I have to say, this Lupin has great taste.











But I don't think he'd ever take from a woman what she's not ready to give.


Good night, Sonya.

Good night.












Sonia, darling.




















































All right, get them in the house.



Okay.

My dear friend, the cops who were here yesterday, they're not my people.






































Well, Duval, the last time you stole was three years.

























Oh, this is a bad place.








Let's say I help you get out of this mess, give you money, and send you to America, where the streets are riddled with gold, and everyone's rich and happy.




































































No, my dear sir.




















We talked till morning.












































And make sure she gets the same cozy little camera.
























With the first whistle, you and your men move.




















Well, stupid old bastard, when I'm as old as you, I'm gonna talk like you.









It's too big.




Oh, she's beautiful... beautiful.










Okay.









































All right, let him go.






All right, search him.

































Oh, good, good.























I don't think you're happy.




Oh, darling, don't say anything stupid.










Okay, lady.









Come on, darling.

















You little liar!


























Okay, okay.










I don't need money.
I need my men.




Okay.

























































I wanted her to be happy.


Okay.











Okay...




You're a much better thief than a liar.













Remember the old clothes dealer that came to your house a couple weeks ago?








I'm a bad shot.


The last bullet took him out, sir.






It's a good time to leave.










It's beautiful.










How happy would old Gerchard be if he saw me buying diamonds, huh?















We've been exhausted since this morning.




























I'm ready to stay here.



Please, we have to be in the theater by 6:00 or we'll all be fired.



Great, my little nymph, we're staying.


















You have a good reputation here. I thought my body might interest you before and after my meter.















I really need the money.




























I'm glad you came to me.
















- Ready, Dad?















The most beautiful princess told me that if I left, she would do whatever I wanted.



















It was too big and too bright.











Do you need $1,500 at once?





But the doctors say you need to leave.





I was gonna get back to the old case.


We need money. There's only a few weeks left to wait.











Thank you, darling. I'll see you later.











- When was the last time you worked?







It doesn't matter. And don't tell me you came here for love of art.








I usually charge 20 percent, but you're willing to charge 15.



From the moment you're in my hands, your interests will be more important to me than my own.





- For the first time.



















I need a singer.

I already have one cute girl ready to do anything for this part.
I don't know if I need another one.




That's good.






Okay, okay, wait.























Good night, Ned.
Good night, Johnny.














Do you take the first mile?




Good drinkers are usually bad drivers.
Do I take the first mile?



Ready?























Okay, Rudolph, do it your way.









Are you gonna keep asking, or are we gonna go home, big loser?






You better stay out of trouble, or you're gonna have to get a place in the hospital.



Okay, monster.







- Hey, Nick, honey.







Very nice.











My good friend, Mr. Nick Townsend.
Miss Jones. Nice to meet you, Miss Jones.



- Nice to meet you, Miss Jones.



Nice to meet you, Miss Jones.













Good night, Miss Jones.


Good night, Henry.

- Good night, Miss Jones.
- Good night.











You're embarrassing me. You'd better go, I need to change.




- You'll do me a great honor.
- A big favor?
















You'd better go and get some sleep.





















- Goodbye, darling.







- Okay, Daddy. Goodbye.

















- Okay, Mr. Townsend.





When I was your age, I was willing to give everything for a dog.



















How are you, darling?

















I don't need contracts with my actors.
My word is worth more than money. I'll lose a lot of money if she leaves.
You should have seen my place in the last couple of days.


You need to raise Johnny.












Come on, honey, kiss me.


- Okay, Mrs Collins.
How are you? - I don't complain either. Nice day.























- He needs me.










Have a nice walk.




















- Do we have to leave today? - Yes.




















































I'm here if you still need me.

You saved my life, and I'm happy.











I'm a good mother.












- It was a very bad picture.











She checked out this morning without leaving a new address.














- Bad boy.
























You better not be looking for a job in this town if you don't want to be found.





















Come on, I'll show you the big, beautiful kitchen.








Is this your first arrest?



































































































She's leading a life that's not fit for a little kid.






























Okay, Mommy, I'll wait.































I beg you to stay away from Johnny.

It's the only way you can be a good mother to him.









Be a good boy and go with Daddy.




- You need a pillow?
- I don't need a pillow.



Screw it, girl, it's gonna be a new day tomorrow.
















































It's good to see you again.






Are you happy? In love?
I'm not in love with anyone and I'm absolutely happy.






That's better.


































































You're not so good with money, are you?














It's so good to see you.


I'm so happy to be with you, Johnny.
Johnny, you're so small, you've lost weight.








Good night.



















I was camping with my friends. As I recall, I was very happy.










And you didn't need any other wish?




And you saw your mom on stage. And she was very beautiful.




I don't know, Johnny, honey.










Okay, Dad.





















It's bad. He says I won't be long.






I'm staying here at the Grand Hotel, Berlin's most expensive hotel.












Okay.


Yes. If the absorption doesn't take place, it's too bad.










I need the money, or I can't stay here.





It's a very expensive place.









Thank you, but I don't need advice, I need money.
There's music everywhere, fine.



Madame Grosynsky doesn't need a car.








You know, big hotels don't like little dogs.




















- How's the beautiful lady?















Bad.






Make a good impression.





I'm an honest businessman, a good husband and father.



































- Nice low-cost number.














I want the number, the big number.

I'm nothing worse.

Would you put it in a little room in a corner where the pipes always sound?



Mr. Kringelein will take room one hundred and seventy-six, one of the most expensive.
















If a man's collar is too big, he's definitely sick.












































It may seem inappropriate, but maybe you'd be more fun if you bought new clothes.


It's nice of you to care.



- Room's ready, sir.















































Do you think I should?









- That's not good.




















All right, let's dance.
May I remind the Baron of his permission to address him when necessary?








- Yeah, you're so beautiful.

You're cute.






I would dare invite a baron to my beautiful room.

It's very expensive, but it doesn't matter.





Class I.













- Okay.




























Madame Grosynsky needs a car.























Madame Grosynsky doesn't need a car.







- It's not fear, it's something more.






































As soon as she hears the music, everything's gonna be okay.















- Okay.











Adolphus, I need to talk to you seriously.
















- Need any help?




First of all, there's a nice duty lady on the floor who'll see me in the room.








- She's got a nice face.


































You're beautiful, you could do other work.


I've got a good figure, I've got a lot of pose.















It must be nice out there.








Okay.

"Manchester's deal is over." Is that bad?






Come in the morning, and we'll finish this before the meeting.


I wish I hadn't worked tomorrow.
Good night.






















Okay.














Okay.












Good night.




















No need to call for help, madam.




You're so beautiful.








I didn't know you were so beautiful.
















I've never seen anyone more beautiful than you.














Champagne and girls with their dances, beautiful silver bowls, ice and caviar.














Good morning.

Yes. Okay.

The Grand Hotel. Good morning.




Good morning.


















Bad.





















You were the first.


- Glad you could make it. - Hello.




Excuse me. Glad you could make it.














Okay.
Gentlemen, since June 11th... after the first merger talks...











I was small, thin and hard as a diamond.










That's sweet.









When I was a kid, they taught me how to ride.




















I don't need it.

You'd better go.
I really needed the money.



I needed a lot of money right away.










- Good morning.







Good morning.
Honey.
Pymen. Beautiful morning.
Yeah, very good.




Our train is tomorrow morning.






















We'll be happy.









It's morning.














Honey, is that you?

Good morning.

I mean, I'm happy.

















- Big failures.


That's not what we need.






Good night.








- Nope. I have a train to catch.





















I think we should celebrate.
Good night.


- Good night.


















- You need to rest.








Zinnovitz, this is the first time in thirty years.






We need to give her a hint.




























































It's so important.















Don't you want to make a man happy?




He's a nice old man.










It's beautiful.





I need you.






















In the morning? - Nope.























I think you'd better go.
Let's see who's the last to leave.








- I'm happy, Miss Flemm.

For the first time in my life, I'm happy.














- Glad you could make it.



















You don't care if a man lives on a salary.
































































It's important.











I need clothes, shoes. It's cold in England in March. I need a suit.



























































Honestly, Kringelein, I need the money right now.


I'll be happy to borrow it.

























I need them.

















Old bandit, nine again.










It's expensive and good.












Kringelein, you old robber, you're hopeless.


















For the first time in my life, I played and danced.

Life is beautiful, but dangerous.

- You're healthy and happy, that's good, but trust me, if you don't know death, you don't know life. - Fine.


To life, wonderful, dangerous, short, beautiful life.


You know, I've been living since last night, and this new life seems to me longer than last.










It's okay.




An old drunk.



















I wanted to pay for my last days.








I'm glad he got it. 14,000 marks.









Good night.













You're cute.
Good night, funny girl.
Good night.


















- You're beautiful.































I barely know you, but it doesn't matter.


























You're the best friend of sweet Mr. Kringelein.






































Looks calm.





Poor Baron, he needed money so much.

































I'll give you a very good position.
Thank you very much, Mr. factory magnate Priceing.

















- Three o'clock in the morning, madam.













I'm gonna be a normal woman, very simple, very quiet and happy.



Madame needs to sleep.






Honey, why aren't you picking up?










































- Good morning.
- Good morning.




Okay.






Good morning.























































Do you think you'll be as happy with me as you are with Prysing?




You're a good man, Mr. Kringelein.
Very good.







I need two tickets to Paris.































Grand Hotel, darling.
This way, darling.

Come on, honey.
Good morning.






































































Are you feeling better?

Good enough to finally introduce yourself?























Bob Noble's parties are always like this. But you don't often find such beautiful hands on them.
Long, thin, hands of an artist. And a diamond ring the size of a little potato on a finger.
Terriblely cute head, hair like an Indian, beautiful, well-defined face, sharply marked like a tomahawk.











I think you're cute.

























I have to be at the club early in the morning.














He's a good reporter, but he's a terrible scratcher.










































Is there a doorbell or can I just come in?















We'd better sit down.










I'd like you to go to the party, but it's not that important.












I was just advertising the best of Prentisse's products.



































I met a girl who's the exact opposite of your bright, spoiled personality. It's the first girl I've been attracted to since you ripped my wrists and took my blood in a gilded cup.
You better be as good at your brain as you are at your feet.











Because, my dear, I'm going to get married.




You don't look much like a happy fiancé.
That's where you're wrong, V. I'm really happy.








For a full quarter, we need a baritone.





You're not so bad, V, but here's the thing.
























Okay.
























Good for you.













You'd better hold me.







First of all, he's not worth it. Second of all, it was a good shot. And third, spit on it.


This country needs more blondes and more men like me.








What happened, sweetheart?






Of course, darling.

Okay.





















Okay.



Is that your last offer?






Parents resist when they have to give up their daughter, Corbett, the only child.


You probably won when you first met.






I want to see you happy, daughter, more than anyone, and if you marry Jerry you'll be happy, then, of course, I don't mind.






Joan is so beautiful today, you can't describe it in words.



Would you be happy if it was your engagement party?



I need to step back.










You'd better get out.

















































































Yes, darling?









I thought I'd been to all the parties, but celebrating rejection was the first time.







Don't be upset, honey.





20 years of experience, Mrs. Legree, in the best hotels.





Nothing, honey.



- Okay.




My dear friend, I go shopping better than you, and you wipe the floors better than I do.

This country needs fewer people who drop everything on the floor.










You and Jerry are gonna be happy.

































Honey.





Yeah, yeah, we're old friends.


I'd be very pleased, Jerry, if you'd remembered me all these years, especially when you wrote such a beautiful play.
I'm glad you liked it.




So, in the first act, when I go on stage...
It would be better if I went out alone, not with DeBryon.







I think it'd be better if I had a curtain specifically for me.
And if you took DeBryon off the stage in advance and left me alone, it would make a better impression.



It's okay, it's okay, Jane.

Okay, Miss Claire.








Okay.

So how do you feel before you start your first show?






















Okay, I'm coming.



Honey!







I'm too happy.

When I'm happy, I always cry.









I'm so happy!





















Stay with him, okay?






Okay.




























Are you saying you're happy here?

Are you really happy here?










Now he needs me, it'll be selfish to leave him alone.







You have no idea how kind and sweet Jerry really is.



































Really, you have no idea how cute you are.

Well, honey, we're going to hell fun.






Joanie, I think you're the best person in the world.













You don't have to explain why.







I wish you hadn't done that, Joan.
I think you're a wonderful girl, and anyone would be happy to marry you.






I spent all morning thinking that we live in a modern world where old-fashioned wives have no place.

















Okay.
This country needs less fresh air and more cigarette smoke.





















Mrs. Corbett is such a nice woman.

That's it, then that's it. Tighten it up and ready.





All right, let's go.






A free life, separate beds and a couple of lousy phrases in the morning.


About the beautiful spoon between your scapulas, darling. (*play of words : desression - 1. depression ; 2. spoon )













Something's been going on with me lately.



You're in very poor physical condition.
Very bad.
You need rest and rest.






Good night.







He said I needed rest and rest.

V, remember when you said you had to clean up in time?





Hello, darling.


It's awful good to see you.





In a minute, sweetheart.



You know, I was recognized as the most popular person in college when I told them I'd just started a new case.
This country needs more people to start a new case.


It's an old American custom.






Honey, I don't owe anyone anything.



Are you okay?











Honey, Claire's going to the movies.
We just took the first scene.


















That's right, sweetheart.




























The best thing you can do for me is stay here.








That's the best thing she's ever...











Only a penitent drunk can be worse than a drunk.














Oh, I'm glad.
I'm glad you came back into my life because otherwise I could spend my life clinging to your image in my head, to the illusion that I've been drinking all these years.




This country needs fewer blondes.





That's what this country needs - more men who understand when they're wrong.















I'll write a new letter.















I'm too happy to drill your eyes, Prentiss.




















Joan needs me.

She was there when I needed her, and now she needs me.




Are you feeling better, darling?

I need him.





























I'd rather have a whole bottle.


What you need.







Okay.













































































































Nice to meet you.











My best friends...











Well, we need to take a break.









Ready, Rainsford?





































Russians aren't the best mechanics.


























Yeah, thanks. You don't apologize when you don't have to.













I've started an exceptional case, I've come up with a new sensation.






I haven't grown up yet when he gave me his first gun.









He just ran off with most of his fortune.








Yeah, the conditions are bad today.



It is, my dear, the hunt has clouded other passions.










I didn't need a new weapon, I needed a new prey.
New prey?


















If he says it's good, it's good.

He's a good master and a real expert, isn't he, Count?


Okay. Just tell me I'm yours.





Okay, change the subject.







































I heard him leave at night and come back this morning.


Probably enjoying the company of two nice people?
























My dear, you're excusing yourself.
I see fatigue in these beautiful eyes.

You know, the Count is worse than a governess.

What are you, darling, no.




Good night, Mr. Rainsford.
Good night.





Dear Rainsford, I'm so careless.
You should get some sleep, too.





Well, good night.
Good night, sir.









Well, good night.












































Full, full, dear Rainsford.























I come up with respect-- good food, preparation, everything to get in great shape.
























Four in the morning.
























All right, I'll take her with me.


































If you cut the holding branch, the tree becomes a beautiful Malay trap.








Come on, we're gonna need more lane.

Almost ready.










We're ready.

















Bob, we gotta get out of here!




















Yeah, very good, Ransford.
Very good.












My dear Rainsford, congratulations.



























You're leaving, darling?
You don't need a jacket, it's so hot.




A salt hat is what you need in the heat.
































The calmer Mr. Lepic is, the more she speaks.



















- No, sweet Onorin.



You need to rest.




What do you want out there?











- I'd rather throw myself in the river.















It's good to have a good mother.


You're her little Fifi, and you're already looking for a cause for displeasure.










An old selfish prude.























But he's not such a bad kid at all.







No worse than any other child.












It's so good to see you, my little Minus!







































My little Red.














- Good night, darling.
- Good night, Mom.
Good night.
Good night.



Good night!

























Okay.








No worse than anywhere else.

In the meantime, I give you good advice:
To please her, just say bad things about me.





- You're leaving, honey?


I'm going, too, okay?


Can you do that, darling?














- He's a good young man.
















Okay?













- My darlings.



















We're not doing anything wrong.











Is the water good?








Good.








These are too big.

I like the little ones more like the plums.








- Are you okay?





I still don't have 50 francs to spare for the bike.







I'll get you a scarf and play you a little serenade.






The girl isn't rich, but charming, which is pretty enough for a handsome fiancé.
O you maidens of the village and all the surrounding areas, dress up in the best mansions.



















































Come on, darling.
Come on, my little Red.



My darling.

Tell me, darling, who do you love more?




Good night.




Good night.


















- Maybe she needed him.
- She always needs him.






























































All I need is a minute of courage, and then it'll be over.

She'll be happy in the shower.
I don't want her to be happy!



It's gonna get worse.












Okay.



...the first order of my administration will be to restore the mayor's right to the first kiss of all brides.



My dear Red, be so kind and bring the flour from the mill.

























Very good.









I'm treated like the worst of the worst.













Come on, honey, go to the mill.

Always looking for a new way to screw up.






You first.





He couldn't stand the old mayor.












































I'm big enough to make a living.
























Put on all the best, Sunday.



I'm so happy!




























Now it's a little speech.


































I'll be needed there.
















































Better than today, you'll never be.

- She's bad.





- Very good.
























It's not very beautiful, because the water is dirty.



































Half an hour ago, Red and I were talking like old friends.








































Look, Red, the most important thing about relationships is understanding, harmony.
























Dad's a good dad.
A mother is a good mother.




















Take me with you, honey.




- Okay.


Okay, Ed.









I know your thoughts better than you.




It's been a great year.




Well, be a good boy and don't "think" about it.












Better do it now.





































You're back on the old track, sweetheart.
That's sweet, Eddie.



































The farm is supposed to be so good and quiet.











Great, I'm glad you're not mad.



Maybe his farm isn't as big as he wrote in the letter.






30, and he's got a big farm, unless he's lying.
And he needed a lunatic, so he went to the agency.
Women in large deficits.














You're young, sweet, talented.






It's a lot of money.



































Those who need rings need a marriage certificate.




It's really cute, but it's too big.
It's the smallest size we wear.












Well, that's good, but I'm carrying the loss.





You guys are the first time.















"Dear children, we are gathered here under the eyes of our Father to unite this man and this woman in a happy marriage.




























You're so cute.











The roads aren't very good, are they?
They're worse in the spring after the rain.

We'd better get to bed.







You little...





Wedding's a good reason for a drink.










Good to see you.







- I'd love to.
Jim, you're a coyote, how did you get such a young and cute bride?












I'm so glad you came.
I hope you'll be happy in our community.





























Old bull.


































Good night, guys. We'll do it again.







Joan, you're the cutest sweetheart.

You better go home and get some sleep.











Good night.











Good night.
Good night.

I'll take care of it this morning.







- Beautiful?
















- How much money do you need?























These are the best seeds there can be.
They took first place in Calgary and Chicago.
The best seeds in the world.




And, in the end, there were the best wheat seeds that could be.
























I don't really need this farm, I need you, Mrs. Gilson.












Okay, okay, okay.

- Good morning.







Last day of the year... and what year.
This is the last coal.

Is it good to drown?






- Coffee ready?









I just can't forget the look on your face that first night...





















Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.










Okay, take a cup and put flour in it.

No, honey.













I don't need anything else, darling.

You'd better go home before it gets dark.


- Yes, darling?







Yeah, I'm fine.





















It's not that bad, Eddie.

























We're a good couple.





But, honey. This guy doesn't love you.
















And I'm the smartest person in the world right now.


























Come on, honey, sit down.





I'm very happy there.















Yeah, and the worse it gets, the more you love him.






I don't need him.
I swear I don't need it.



I need you more than any other man in the world.



I'll go with you whether you want me or not.


















You need meds, hot tea and a hot toast.




























She was here this morning and I'm sure I saw her in the yard a few minutes ago.




Well, it's a good thing she doesn't run a snag.




















Okay, then take your place.



She's not such a bad girl, Mr Gilmore.


I'm the last person to oppose entertainment, but only at the right time.


The first degree today will be given to Miss Phyllis Fraser.
And now I'm happy to give my degree to the best in class, Willie Goldberg.
Four centuries and seven years ago, when our ancestors founded a new nation on this continent...



Next, but not the last one I give to a girl recognized as the most popular in her class...


















Aren't you being poisoned by our little hotel?
Oh, he's very nice.





Why would you do that?










Remind me to take them to the master in the morning.





























But you're allowed to hang out in our new salon, aren't you?














She was the first queen in class.
- Is she still beautiful?




Vivien was a sophisticated little satanic...





















I'm really glad you got a job on this show.








I should be the happiest woman in the world.
A beautiful house, a successful husband, and a wonderful karum, but...


Maybe I'm indifferent to what makes other people happy.

















He's 3.5 and he's so cute.
















There's something big and black.

Why don't you go and see for yourself?



Good night.


We'll play horse in the morning.



Good night.


Come on, close your eyes like a good boy.



- That's so fucking good.

Good night.










What a good boy.
- Good night.
- Good night, Mom.
Good night, son.











Now get to bed and you can get up early in the morning. We'll go watch the goldfish.







- Good night, son.
- Good night, Dad.












I did everything I could to make you happy.



I can try... rub your belt every morning before breakfast.

Don't make jokes, darling. There's got to be some way out.

















Actually, I object, but if you think it's the best way to deal with this situation?


I'll miss him, but maybe it'll be better.
Well... we'll talk about it in the morning.
Good night.
- Good night.
- Good night, Bob.


























It's bad.





You'll be there at 9:00 a.m.






It's okay, honey.







You're always so sweet to the baby, Bob.

I'm sure when you get back, you're gonna feel better and everything's gonna come out in a new light.

- Goodbye, darling.











- It's good to see you.















That's very nice of you, but I'm afraid I won't be able to keep my baby.


Okay.















- Oh, for Vivien! - Here you go, darling.























- But then I'll be too old, you mean?
- Oh, honey, I didn't say that.























Use as many people as you think you need. I care about the result.






Poor little boy.
One more drink, darling, and then you have to get dressed.
Okay.


















I'm telling you, Ruth, my blood gets cold in my veins every time I go in there and see this poor little boy in this environment.





Don't blame yourself, darling.








She loves the kids and he's gonna love it here with her little girl.































I mean, it doesn't matter what you do, but I don't think it's fair to get a little kid involved.



Ruth has a sister with a little baby.



Maybe that's a good idea.




















- Yeah, we're old friends.

She's here in New York, and your little boy...







I don't know what happened between you and Vivien, and I don't care about that, but I'm worried about your little boy.

























My little boy.


































Let's build a castle of sand, honey.







And he's been very attached to both of you... in the last few months...
I'm very happy.




She looks so happy with him...





























That's the first wife.











He's wonderful and sweet, Vivien.

















































































I need the money right now.


I need $2,000.










First of all, no newspaper, no big and small can buy this story, because if they print it... - I'm gonna turn it upside down.









And it was so important that I told the baby that we should go back and ask Dad.


Come on, honey.















Big sails and stuff.

Miss Westcott, take him... to the children's world and buy him the biggest yacht he'll ever have.










Look, kid... you're ready to help your mom, aren't you?



















Okay.






























































Of course, and 18 cops ready to take down anyone who approaches him at 10 yards.





She's getting really sick.






Ace is developing a new plan.
Doesn't look like she's gonna get better.















What do you want?








You'll be the first person he points to if we "float" and just leave him.












Baby, baby, wake up, darling.


Listen, honey, let's play a game.



- Yeah, honey, hurry up.

No, I'm happy, darling.
I'm happy.

















And my dear mother, wherever she may be, God bless her, and save her from evil.



And you don't need an apple with magical power, you don't need a garden with flowers to feel the trembling of sweet fast clocks.















Very good.














































But anyway, when the king tells the Marquis that he saw me, the Marquis will tell the Marquis and the Marquis is the Duchess' best friend.





And tomorrow, it's gonna be Big Canal's main sleeper.














A lot of pride.

















Well, my best wishes to the Marquis.





If you think it's best for you to leave, well...
That's so sweet of you.
Yeah, that's very nice.























And then I said to myself, "Okay...

There's nothing wrong with that.















When I came in here, it was just for a little adventure, a little game you're playing today, and tomorrow you're forgetting.


It's all so new to me.








- Glad to be of service.


















Honey!
Oh, no, honey.










My little robber.
My sweet little pickle.
My dear.






Remember, no matter what you say, no matter what you look like.
It's important how you smell.


The manufacturer of the best spirits!

Cleopatra was a beautiful seducer.
But she did it with a little pulverizer.


I'm sure, Madame Kole, if your husband were alive, the first thing he would have done in these difficult times was cut salaries.










But she's beautiful.










You see, François, marriage is a wonderful mistake... that two people make together.




Madame will be ready in a few minutes.












































Nice violets, I'd buy them.

I'm the happiest girl in the world...















- Good morning, Major.
- Good morning.


All right, sir.
- Beautiful day, Major.















It's gonna be okay again.










Well, darling, you have to be honest and bring her back to this lady.


Honey, what's the date today?











































Okay, madam.























But, you see, it's a very expensive purse, and you have to be careful.























- But that's exactly what you need!















It's nothing serious, but at the same time, we better not be testing fate.


- Good day, Doctor.
- Good day, Major.




















I need the money.

In short, I'm a representative of the new poor.
Then I'm glad I lost my purse.



- Do you know my first name?




















- Beautiful sample.





She must have been happy here.
Too happy.




























Madame Kole, if I were your father... and fortunately, I am not him... and you would dare take some steps of your own in the business, I would give you a good whipping.





Very good.



I think it's best to increase the amount of the burglary insurance to 850,000 francs.














Oh, you and those dirty old papers and contracts... and money, money, money.



Actually, I have to get up early in the morning.
New paragraph.

Honey, that means June 2nd... we'll have 850,000 francs.




Gaston, I know you're very busy, and I don't want to bother you, but she has this little necklace...




Okay, Jacques.

Good morning, madam.
Good morning, Mademoiselle.







My little brother goes to school.





























- For all the really important things.


Oh, no, no, my dear child.




It's better for you and your little brother, too.

Okay, madam.

- And, my dear...







And she's willing to pay 50 francs for it.











This woman has more than jewelry!



They're beautiful.






- No, no, honey.



My dear, remember that you are Gaston Monescu.

And I need you as a fraud.




Goodbye, dear Gaston.
Goodbye, sweetheart.






- Oh, that's so bad...















Okay, okay.




































































I'm having a dinner party, and one person is letting me down at the last minute.




























- Well, that's fine.





















































Two first-class tickets to Berlin.











A bird in his hands is better than two in prison.


- How long do you need to clean this place up?













I want to order five dozen roses... dark red roses... put them in a basket... and send it to Madame Kole tomorrow morning.


Tomorrow morning at 10:00.













How do you like my new dress?


















I don't need a car.

Okay, madam.




All right, monsieur.




































Okay, I'll call you again.



























Honey!
I'm so glad to hear your voice.




Tomorrow morning?
















You know, he's not really such a bad guy.












It's very important, Monsieur La Walle.
Maybe it's important to you, Monsieur Geron.










So I said to myself, "Okay...
If he wants to look at them, let them, there's nothing wrong with that."



- And you won't be here tomorrow morning.
- Okay, monsieur.












































All I need is this.























































Very good, madam.

The police will be happy to identify me.


You needed 100,000 francs... and I thought you needed me.







I think you'd better go.




That's too bad if your fingerprints are found...



- I don't want your money!
















But tomorrow morning, when you wake up from your dreams... you hear a knock, and the door opens, and there, instead of the maid with breakfast on the tray... there's a police officer standing with a warrant, you'll be happy that you're alone.

Beautiful.






With best wishes from Coke and Company.














Could have been worse, sir.



























Oh, yeah. Come on, darling.





















Don't think I'm sticking my old nose in someone else's business, but I think you'd better get out of here right after the wedding and never have anything to do with Mr. Beaumont again.




Perhaps I should meet them.







You better stay away from this man, sir.








I'm willing to sacrifice everything in the world for her.
I don't need anything but her.


Madeline, it's good to see you.










It's so sweet, Madeline, you haven't given up on a single bachelor.






















That's not what I need.























Do what I need and ask whatever you want.

















I'll make you the happiest of women.
I'll give my life to make you happy.
Listen to me, darling, before it's too late.






My last gift to you before I lose you forever.





Beautiful gypsy, predict my fate.









Come to your senses, darling, please.






































Two explanations for this disappearance come to my mind. The body was or was stolen by servants of the cult of death, who need human bones to worship them, or...



























Oh, no. Better death than that!






























































She should be happy again.





Better hate than that terrible emptiness in her eyes.


Let's drink to the future of this beautiful flower.
















We have to meet an old celebrity here.















I'm too old to share this path with you!









It's like old Pierre said.





Get your strength up till morning.




















You see, you're the first person to know what's going on with him.













Oh, my dear, what did they do to you...







Madeline, don't you recognize me, darling?



Madeline, my dear.




































They're happy.

Henry hasn't met me lately.
















Henry's trying to get better.











To love, you have to be generous.






You have to read her diary to find out what happened next.
































You're both happy?





The new roommate asked if there was a good job.


Morning




You're a happy family.


Did you find a good job?







Maybe it's the only place I'm welcome to be.
I'm glad you came.



































She needs money.







































I thought you were the only one who was happy with me.
I'm always happy to see you.





Go home and learn to be a good father.
Make up a beautiful name for your baby.
That's what's best.











They're married and happy.
Stay away from them, okay?

But they're happy.






I'm glad I met you.


I'd rather have an old ride.
















































On the first day of this marriage, I realized that we had nothing in common.


From the first day of our marriage, the defendant's behavior... the selfishness of the defendant and his indifference... attitude... no.
































It's gonna be okay.
You'll see, tomorrow you'll be much better.










































Until 1922, when the first highway was built, Las Hurdes was almost unknown to the rest of the world, including Spain itself.







On the day we arrived, we noticed women dressed as if they were for a big holiday.











On a steep slope, we crossed the beautiful valley of Batuecas, inhabited by old nuns and their servants.
For 400 years, the nuns of the Order of Carmelitok have lived here, preaching Christianity in the most important towns of Las Hurdes.
































One of the best students wrote on the board, at our request, one of the maximums of this book.


































































In the first year, the harvest is abundant, but then the land is depleted in the absence of fertilizer and becomes barren again.






The hurdians make the best fertiliser themselves from dry leaves of strawberries, which are not particularly common in these mountains.





































Here's another old jerk.
















The interior of the best house in the village.
















The peasants, the workers, the mountain people in the rest of Spain have achieved a better quality of life thanks to the mutual assistance and assistance of the Government of the People's Front, which came to power through the last elections.














Good to see you.

- Good to see you.









































Here's that bottle, honey.


































































He did. I think it's a big politician.
There's something big in there, but it's not political at all.



























































































Go to a big city with great potential.







The darker the better, or we'll get caught.





























I have good references.







- It's not bad here.













- These guys overboard, first of all.











Oh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... McCoy, the papers will be ready in 10 minutes.
Thank you very much.


























































It's my first time.
















It's also a good party for him, Carter's own daughter.




The new mistress.










- Who was that, honey?
- Collecting old paper.








Okay.









What is wrong with you, my dear?

















Lily's really bad.





It's even the best way out.





















- Don't.
















- Well, that's good.



















Is he your first passion?













- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Oh, new furs, honey?
- Be careful with "honey."















You know, sometimes your little girl is very lonely here alone.
Oh, my dear.


Chico stays. - Okay, okay.








It's a good thing you're back in business.
Bye, darling.



I need Miss Powers' apartment.


Did she leave a new address?























- Why didn't you leave a new address?











Better get used to it.


All you needed from me was one thing.
























The best gift I've ever received.




























You demand the resignation of the president and the choice of a new one.








Good morning.




It's good to see you, sir. Vanderler.


- Good morning, Kurtland.


- Good morning.
It's good to see you, sir. Golt.


I guess some of you think I'd rather stay in the old business than run the bank.

So, the first thing we need to solve is Lily Powers.





































I need the money to leave.




































Send Miss Powers on the first boat to Paris.
























Oh, honey, I'm so nervous.


The president's last visit...









I'm glad to hear that.







Oh, very nice, except a taxi can't catch in the rain.















Would you agree that our first meeting was a very formal one?


With all the charm of the Old World and the old water supply.






Big bosses are starting to cut costs.









- How are you, darling?





Kurtland always finds the most expensive ladies.



...tomorrow, darling.

Have a nice day.




































It was the three happiest days of my life, but...



























I'm leaving in the morning.







Ready. They're talking.







I'm sorry, darling, but we have to go to New York right away.






- When the bank closes because of bad management, who's to blame?

































I need the money.
I need a million today.

I need everything I've given you stock, mortgage, everything.










































Honey.







Honey...









It doesn't matter now.

- All set, Bridges?



Me too. He called me his old bastard.



What are you, my love? I'm glad you decided that.


- It's from me and Bridges, ma'am, and with our best wishes, believe me.





It's nice that they took care of the flowers for us on New Year's Eve.









Is that a nice curtain hat, or is it like the love pictures Mrs gave me?





















Look in the eye, old lady:











We need wars from time to time just to show that we're the coolest.

You're so good this evening...

















That's a bright idea for a new century.

Oh, Robert, my dear, I'm gonna miss you so much.








Am I just bad?

You can't be bad.

























- I want to meet New Year's Eve.


I'll complain to the old fairy who lives in a shoe.
What if I'm even stronger for complaining about the old fairy's mom?

Mom, can we meet New One at least tomorrow?



After all, a new century is a new century.




Thank God they're small enough to fight.
Peace and happiness, my dears.



No, it's bad to break sleep.







- Ida downstairs, meet New Year's Eve!
- New year?

Put this on, honey.


Forget the Old Love

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and good old...


- Here you go, darling.


Happy new century!






I know, honey, but it's not gonna work.




- Jane, darling...





- Oh, my dear, that would be great.




- Oh, that's cute.




































Give me the smile of your old file.
Come and look at the old file.




Fanny, your old file is going to war.










Isn't that a beautiful sight?





Then try to keep your eyes open at the earliest opportunity.










They're too small, they are, they're too much of a challenge.









Dirty old Kruger!
Dirty old Kruger!












































Oh, Jane, darling...




Jane, darling, sit down.
















You must be just as sick.
Well, no news is good news, and let's see what happens.


Now, honey, why don't you have this tea?





- The latest battle reports!












No news is good news, and let's see what happens.
Look at this, Jane, darling.










Well, there's nothing good about it.




Well, Jane, darling...



































- He needs money!


































Honey, your daddy's gonna be home tonight, alive and safe.































Goodbye, you old twat.













She's cutting off her old file.









She'll recognize her old file.













































Well, chef, old lady, didn't you see yourself as a bartender?


- We're so glad you're home, Dad!

And I'd be happy if you let me take a breath.















































In the beginning, sweetheart.








There's a policeman on such a beautiful white horse!
Oh, honey, don't jump like that, don't get excited.

- Okay, Mom.

- Sure, if you're good.
- Are all the polyshifts good?


























- You'd better go to that balcony.
- Okay, madam.


























The battle report came out beautiful.










- It's a good thing you're here.








- Honey, they're pissed off. - Mm-hmm.

It's all because of you, sweetheart.


As I recall now, only under Pretoria did we have to be with the old human resources...











































Hey, wait, give your old file a kiss.

You're too proud to kiss your old file, aren't you?






Someone's better off being held in their mittens.




















Come here, darling.
I knew you when you were a little baby.



On my feet, imagine, from morning to night.



You don't need retail.










Oh, in the best possible way, I suppose.


























That's the first time I've heard he's got a bike.




Here, take this, darling.



- Goodbye, darling.


I'm so glad you made yourself comfortable.





Well, time changes a lot, but old friends are constant, aren't they?













Dear Ellen.













Yeah, I'm too bad for a house that's getting better and better.

And you, I see, are good!


















He needs a lesson, a good one.


































I'm happy to announce to you the winner of this week's song and dance contest.

No one but Little Miss Fanny Bridges.







Put me in an old town,


And if you do, I'll be happy, old man,




You'll have to, darling.



But does he need our entire delegation to meet?








Of course not, sweetheart.









- Jane, honey, of course not.


Honey, you know I'd love to.




















- Oh, that's beautiful.






- Oh, Jane, honey, there you are.
- Oh, hello, darling.


- Very good.










Yeah, that was the day the poor old Alf blew up.







Look, a big sailboat carrying its fragile human load on the farthest abandoned forposts of the empire...














On the world's most beautiful ship?

Oh, Edward... honey...









It's okay.
- So great is the Atlantic.

- More than a bike.












I'd like to believe in the best.

You know, for the rest of our lives, we've never been as happy as we are now.


















Dear Joe.



- Did you have to go any longer, honey?
























They're really happy, and they've always been.
Oh, yeah, but they had a better chance from the beginning.







Oh, honey.

If we have to skip a lot of military echelons, it'll be tomorrow morning.




Oh, of course, my dear.

Honey, what's the matter?
Do you need my help?



- Okay.


















Okay, it's still much better to be here in London.







Oh, like an old angry bug, digging in the basement.







- Only an excess of awful, darling.





















- Damn expensive.


- Good old Russia.









You haven't let me down for a minute in ten years.


























My dears, we are in a state of war with Germany.









Look, mom, honey, let's go for a walk.


At least he died when he was happy...

Sweet Jane, there have been wars before, and the world has not collapsed.
My world isn't that big.

















I'm ready to be a man and you.








I bet the little dark girl drank with her share of the guys in the war.
















Let's drink and pour a new one.














I've been chained to you all night until morning.















- One of your oldest friends.












Didn't you know someone named Joe when you were a little girl?
A little girl?
















Let's go to the roof.










- Oh, that's better.


Oh, honey.







Where's the sweetest house in the world?



Of course, it could also be a private case of the law of large numbers, in favour of the mother, Edward, who was ruined on the Titanic.




Oh, my darling, don't ask me again.

You don't want me to trip on my first exit, do you?









I'll text you in the first intermission and send Maggie down to the post office.
Good old Maggie.






Stay until the end of act one.




- Well, stay, honey.










Just in memory of all the good things we've had.













Really, were you okay?




Oh, how beautiful you are.







Because we're not gonna make a happy marriage.






No, not now, darling.





















Mommy, dearest, you're beautiful.




You can't be bad.




Goodbye, darling.
Goodbye, sweetheart.










- Aren't you happy to be back?



- Sorry, I need RTO.




















She's touchingly beautiful.


















Echelon for new recruits on platform one, five minutes, sir.












Are you ready?






Actually, it's pretty important.

I'm happy to see you again.


- Oh, very good.












He spent a lot of time with her during the last two vacations.





















I think we better wait till Joe gets back.













She knows all the best people.

















































Let's introduce Miss Fanny Bridges and her new song hit.




We're at the end of the line, the headlines carry





















But, Jane, darling, I love jazz.







Jane, honey, really, you're completely hopeless.


No wonder you're always caught up with a new doctor.
Right now, darling, I don't think it's completely tactful to say that.
He's the most beautiful person I've ever met.


Healed you from what, sweetheart?

Well, I feel perfectly good when I'm not treated for non-existent diseases at all.







I won't interfere with your little ritual for peace.
Oh, my dear, you're not interrupting.
- You're an old friend.
- Oh, that's very sweet of you, Jane, darling.






Oh, my dear, how can we if you're in Paris on Monday?








- All right.
And happy New Year.

- Good night, darling.











Ah, that's your strength, my dear.




Sometimes incredibly happy.

And most of it is revealed to us in this house...




- Oh, my dear, of course.
Well, of course we could hang some new porters.
- We hung it, darling.






Dear Robert.




To our old friend, to the future...

But first of all, my dear...







































You must have been beautiful before.




























She's very nice.




That's cute!




If he behaved better, he'd be the first in his class.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He's too good for a stupid father like you.
























































He's good when you recognize him.
But I'm better anyway!
Sweet thing.





























You look good lately.











Very good girl.




I'd be happy if Jiro married her.


She's too good for him.

I'm an old fool.




Please, for our friendship, convince him she's a good girl.


She's too good for someone like you!







Don't be sad. You'd better tell me something.




The latest news!





















I'm your old and stupid father, but don't hate me.
"The next morning..."



Be good at school and listen carefully.












I'm trying to be a good father.
50 hay is a lot for such a little boy. It's like 10 yen to him.







No, it can't be. He was healthy this morning.






















It's a good thing I have a summer hard suit.























Be a good boy and get well.












And I have a terrible habit of spending every last sleigh.






















You know what happens to young girls who borrow a lot of money?










Well, we're old friends.






















I'll never be happy.









Children don't need parents.









I'd give money for nothing if I knew they were needed to save the boy's life.



















If he behaved better, he'd be the first one in class.























Freedonia needs a new, modern, fearless ruler like Rufus T. Firefly!






I would be pleased to introduce you to our new Head of State.
Whoever Freedonia rules, I'll always consider you First Lady.









































On behalf of all the inhabitants of Fridonia, I am ready to embrace you!















- I was with him until the last minute.














Lend us $20 million, you old bastard.
- That's a lot of money.






























"Dear doctor, I'm sending you a check for $500." All right, send it.















The last head of State almost bankrupted the country.








If someone comes between a husband and a wife, we'll ask the wife who's nicer to her.












I'm so glad I'm back with you.





































I have an important meeting, so don't bother me.











I need information on Firefly.




Chicolini, I need a detailed report!




























This time I need results.












- It's a new subject.
Got any old objects?
Then let's move on to new ones. - About the customs...

It's an old object.







We need to find a new finance minister.

















































































She was the first person in the North Pole.



















Okay. Guess three times.








Another mystery is that it's wearing a thick black mustache, smoking a big black cigar, and causing headaches to others?

Okay, so... black mustache... big black cigar... and in the head...























































How's that? Every time she's ready to give her consent, Firefly shows up.














Kids? I'm not rich, but we could have a little family.

- You're creating a lot of little Rufusite...























See you later, darling.








It's the best way to travel.








- There's more. I'm willing to forget what happened if he's willing to.
















Okay. If anything, we're outside the door.



































I'm willing to do anything to avoid war.






































You have to be careful.
































It's so good to see you.









On the first floor, in the safe.





























I thought you didn't need it.
You don't have to?















I don't remember. I was a kid.


That's a good joke, isn't it?






























We need to do something now!








On behalf of the women of Friedonia... this is the last time I'm trying to prevent a war.









I'm happy to meet Mr. Ambassador with a friendly handshake.
























- War, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war.

War, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war, war.






























Go buy ready-made trenches.





We need to clear the nest on the 28th hill.



What's new? - Gas attack.

















I need them, though.
We need backup!









It's good to see you.
















It's okay.

















We need help.


















This is our last supply of water!
- And this is our last woman!























One, two, three, four.
One, two, three, four.
One, two, three, four.
One, two, three, four.
One, two, three, four.
One, two, three, four.
One, two, three, four.

Now, guys, Mr. Jeffreys wants to tell you something important.

You're definitely the best and most neat doorman company that's ever seen the light.




This has to stop.





































































Who's that cute face?















Good thing I found your card.



Well, for starters, it would be nice to sit down and have a drink.


















- Nice to meet you.



Yeah, old friends decided to play, like, five cents.


A new player could change my luck.












That last ace came in handy.




You played a good game, but with a bad card.
- Well, best of luck next time, Quigley.








Okay, baby.














Oh, no, no, I was really happy to help.







Okay.



Nice try to trick me.













Oh, that's so sweet of you.
Thank you very much...












Okay, let's get to the point.

But he's too small. Maybe we should join forces.





Okay, here we go.











- Nice to meet you, sir.

Nice to meet you.







Happy day for you when you caught me on your wallet.
Happy for all of us.


Not bad. And that's not the limit.

Are you ready to work?




















































Okay.



We're gonna take him to the hospital, we're gonna have to get an X-ray.





Thank you very much.











































They're ready to arrest us.










We need him.




















































































Good choice of places to sit on mattresses.








































































So, listen, sugar, I'm not gonna give you any bad advice. They shut Dan down.


We need to get out of the country.

Mexico is the best way for us.















Yeah, it takes 5,000.


- Okay, darling.


He needs money for bail.








Okay, let's do this, I'll send my lawyer to see you.





- Okay.



- Yes. All right, hurry up.








































- We're looking for a new type.
New faces, tough guys for a gangster painting.








- Okay. To be at the National Studio tomorrow at 7:00 A.M.






I don't know. Okay, 7:00, morning in uniform.


- Yes. All set, all set.




All right, listen up. It's all very important.














- Okay, let's try.

- All set?













- What's going on? We need to get a doctor.












- Everybody ready?
























Worse than : :...............................












That's very nice.






P.D.'s waiting for a photo to promote a new film in the magazine.
Please tell my driver to pick me up at 16:00, okay?
Okay. Have you seen the new "Film Play" issue?
- Nope. - Your picture on the cover is very nice.










- Thank you so much for the offer.




Not me. I'm just lucky at the right moment.







I don't think I'm particularly beautiful and talented.















We have to find new faces in our paintings, especially for male roles.
















Could you send us a big picture of him with an aftograph?











I have a good feeling.





Thank you, darling.























- Bye, darling.










Oh, look how cute the monkeys are.



























But it's not because of your company, honey.











Sorry, honey.










- Thank you, thank you very much.




Why is it so important for you guys to blow up the sensation on our own account? All that nonsense you pulled out of your nose and splintered your paperwork?












Chew well. Swallow.


Okay.






















Beautiful ornaments you have there.


You don't have to bother.





Good night.




- I thought you'd be happy to see me.


They're very beautiful.


To put it mildly, it's a bad thing to do.




What, old friends aren't good enough for you anymore?


So you better start acting like a good boy.














- Nice to meet you.





















Okay. You know, our baby Danny spent the weekend on a beach in Malibu after the Beverly Hills party.

Could you help old friends get to one of those parties?

If the cops see me with you, it's not gonna be okay.





You'd let us know where the fatter piece is, that's all we need.
















You'd better learn that now.














- Bye, darling.



Good morning, Lady Agatha.
You look so beautiful this morning.











Okay.












First kiss, you get over the smell.











Okay, everybody ready?


Ready?



Oh, honey, we can't do this.



Honey.



Do you cry when we're so happy?


Very good.

Come on, that's exactly what it takes.














I was lucky this morning with a group of tourists, and we were able to see Lupe Alvarez taking a sunbae.





















Okay, don't be so nervous.










































































If he talks, he'll only hurt himself.

































I need to clean up.
Okay.











































So there's a whole car of cops and a little cart on their tail.















All right, get up.



What's wrong with Hollywood?





Nice to meet you.



- It's an honor.

Nice to meet you.






























I've never seen anything more beautiful.






If you don't mind, I'm ready, as soon as I get back, to organize an exhibition of your works at the Royal Academy of Arts.




I'm honored to meet you.


- Good night, gentlemen.
- Good night.



- Good night, Ivan.
- Good night.








































Why? And that's because they've got Jack the Ripper, Burke and Hare, Mad Butcher Sweeney Todd, a demon parikmacher with Fleet Street, all those people are willing to pay for watching!


















I need to.
No, I'm telling you, I need him right now.






The New Year's celebration isn't what it used to be.





























It's New Year's Eve!













At least it's just a new recipe for spaghetti.









You're gonna come in here next time and you're gonna be swearing before you know it, it's gonna be a lot worse.


Happy New Year!



- What's new about sex?


- How's your little, shrivelled little pussy?

In the last few hours, you're the first reporter here.
- Your colleagues spent the old year?
- Does it look like I've been spending an old year?





















- They've been a sweet couple in the last few months.























































































- When was the last time you saw this girl?





She seemed happy.













What do you even want from me?




- But who had to steal her body?


- It was nice meeting you.

I think it's gonna be okay.





A good kid who's not gonna hurt a fly.






I wouldn't want to, honey. I'd hang it right away.

In New York, eight bodies have disappeared in the last 18 months.







I'm glad to hear that.





It's a good thing you paid for it.









- Can I do what I think is right?








Okay.




Come on. It's 5:00 in the morning.
You need to sleep.









I don't think it's that bad.






That's why I came to you to learn more.



Are you so handsome that you decided to make it look like it?













It's almost done?
Yes, sir, it's done, but I'm having a hard time requiring an assistant.












She's as beautiful as the original.






























To me, going to the Attic Love movie isn't the best way to have a nice day.



Who do you want?




You'll be the happiest couple in the world.

I know he's very nice to you.

Just imagining that one day you're gonna tell the landlord that you have nothing to pay for the apartment, but you're nice around Ralph.









Good to see you, Mr. Winton.
Believe me, when you say it's good to see you, it's from the bottom of your heart.













- Hey, Florence, how's it going? - Okay.
















You can only get a good commercial if...







Okay.







Okay.





Please forgive me for not getting up, my dear.
Nice to meet you.

Until the tragic moment that happened to me, I was able to create the most beautiful figure.





I'll be glad to see you at the opening.

- I'll be glad to see you.





- Goodbye, darling.





I need to get to the office right away.















































Okay, my inspiration.






I bet I'm gonna be right about this, and I'm gonna get my lucky ticket out.



- Glad they let you go.




Well, until the best of times?








I'm so glad you called.


















- Hey, Ralph. - Hey, honey.



- What a beautiful dress! I couldn't see him before?













- My little queen. My little Maria Antoinette.


- They're all so beautiful.






And now that I've finally been able to open the doors of the museum in the new country, I also feel a little tired.

- Okay, sir.




- I'm glad I did.
You're very beautiful.

Come tomorrow morning when there's no crowd of visitors, and then I'll give you more attention.






Yeah, she's one of the best.



- Just this morning.










Good night.

We'd better go.
- Good night.
- Good night.
- Come on, darling.


Good night, darling.
- Good night.
























In the meantime, I'm gonna get a better look at this place.








- Okay, okay.



Okay.


































Of course, but not very well.































































































More like my office. There's only one last step left.

























Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But it's not morning yet.











You better cry to the cops about your troubles.









































Mr. Igor, I'm so glad you're here.



My little friend, you honored me by accepting my invitation last night.
No, I just need to talk to Ralph.


But you're happy kids.






Now I understand why he was so dark this morning.







- Okay, thank you very much.
















You'll help me, my dear.












- Oh, it's so good to meet you.






You better wait till the old man shows up here.








Okay.



























You'll always be beautiful.
Think, my child, even in a thousand years, you will be as beautiful as you are now.
















Don't be afraid, my dear.





























Wait a minute. Honey, you gotta help me.

















Good evening, darling.

I'm exhausted, darling.










Honey, I'll be as calm as a turtle.
























Well... I'm not an idiot. That old Professor Topaz is an idiot.























Good morning, Professor Topaz.
Good morning. What a lovely fragrance, monsieur.


- Good morning, Dr. Stegg.

I have some good news for you.

- Much better.
I am pleased to report that, thanks to my tireless efforts, you can count on the highest honour.












It's beautiful. It gives me great hope.






I'm very happy. Thank you very much.













Given your good grades, the calendar is your responsibility.




















Question One: What is needed to succeed in life?

To succeed in life, you have to be...













He's well dressed, he lives in a beautiful room, he has servants and a car.








No, my dear Monsieur Latur-Latur.







But let me ask you if he'll be happy in his...

Yeah, if it's a good neighborhood.
No, my dear sir.
He won't be happy anywhere.











































































He... puts himself in an uncomfortable position, extracting inappropriate sounds on some little tool, he spits, I'm sorry...



























-...or I'd rather have Scarlatine.




I'll name the new water after him:









Baron, I'm here for the last time to address your conscience.









As long as your deception had reasonable limits, I was willing to condone it.




You want me to throw away a few million francs because of your cowardice, my dear doctor.

But, on the other hand, our ad will convince people of its usefulness, and they'll convince themselves that they're getting better.













I don't trust people who are always willing to resell their honor.

But you always said a fool was exactly what you wanted.

I need an idiot.





Let's pray, darling, that vision send us an idiot.








I had the privilege of being your son's teacher... until this morning.


























We need a scientist whose knowledge and name we can use.

I'm the author of The First Steps in Chemistry.

















Sometimes I see my old army buddy.














My dear Professor!
Charity is the last thing I'd think of.








- Yes, we expect a fine formula from you.








- Here's his last creation.

Topaz assures me that she's doing miracles with kidneys and other vital organs.










You saw them on the best side.

We'd be quite happy without you.




- Little devils!

And this is a drop of new water.










Now I'm putting paper in our new...



























- Where, darling?








I'm-I'm glad.



- Madame Topaz... very pleased.







You saw his picture in the paper this morning, darling.









- Please, darling.



Goodbye, my dear Professor.

Max, honey.






Sometimes I'm ready to cry myself when they call me Monsieur Topaz.



































You're a big man now.
I don't feel like a big man.








- Okay, sir.


















































































Despite the big noise around this case, Emile threw himself into the water.



With great reluctance and only for self-defense.












- Good morning.


Beautiful day!











Sorry, honey.





I've never heard anything like it! Honey...



Good morning, sir.





















Tell them... tell them I'm ready.







So, long-standing criminal, are you ready to meet the police?
I'm ready.





















Congratulations, dear Professor.



Not only friends, my dear Topaz, but also business partners.




Thank you very much.


I always thought that if I got this award, it would be the happiest moment of my life.





in the last few minutes.






You're a big man without that.
Now I'm what they call a big man.









Do you know a good hairdresser?



























You have to be... out of reach.










My dear Coco, in times of crisis, it's not enough.






Okay.




I'm ready for you, Topaz. But don't overdo it.




Always finds important questions on my head.

















It's not like that. It's a new thing.
































Students at the academy, and you, my dear parents.
Today we were honoured by the presence of an old friend...

An old friend I convinced to return to these walls who saw his first successes.



This year's Academy chose its best student, the symbol of intellectual youth, Monsieur Charleman de Latur Latur Latura!

I am honoured to present to you the beloved genius of the Republic, my very good friend...

Gentlemen, dear ladies, Dr. Stegg, colleagues in the faculty...

Thank you. Thank you very much.





He looks very different in a new suit and without his beard."
Since that day, gentlemen, the last time you saw me, I went out into the big world and learned a lot.




But, my dear children, I deeply regret to tell you that, unlike everything you've been taught here, honesty in this outside world is not always rewarded.




































Thank you very much.



It's like it's written on those old walls!






Don't miss us, sweetheart.






Eddie and I need to talk.




































































I'll get it back tomorrow, sweetheart.
The last person to the car is the stinker.





















How much gas do you need?










If we're gonna get married in a couple of years, maybe it wouldn't be bad to prepare the ground, at least give us a hint of our engagement?



















































She's very beautiful.



Say good night to your father and go to bed.
Good night, Edward.
- Good night.














At my age, it's not easy to find a new place.



Man, my mom was supposed to order me a new suit yesterday.
I'm so sorry, honey, if you want me to order it tomorrow.











Good night, Father.
Good night, son.
Good night, darling.






Okay.

I'm sure it'll be okay.

Breakfast's ready.










It's a great little car.








Yeah, my dad's gonna buy a new car.












Well, okay.










- She was a nice little car.















You know me, I quickly lose interest in new things.











Everywhere is better than this shithole.


























I don't feel so good.


































































And it's the best way to get there.


We have a big family.

He was even glad I was leaving.
I hope my aunt is happy to see me.
The last time they saw me was a little girl.










It wasn't for that I wasn't saving my way to run to the first match.

































































I guess it's gonna be a big surprise, huh?


All right, go.




She'll be glad to see us.






















Are you happy?













- Now you're glad you're here?




Ah, it's good to be young.



Daddy's good, despite the difficulties.





























































Hey, guys, you ready to fight?
















































He needs you, he's sweating all over the pain.








We didn't even think it was that bad.





















I'm just gonna need one shoe now.













Here's what you need, here.































































It's the best I could find.


























The first cop to come in here, we're gonna attack the gang.










All you have to do is move somewhere else, and there's no problem.















Are you okay?

















Yeah, I start in the morning, $12 a week.




My little house with a couple of rooms.







I need a jacket like this and blue pants.

















Thank you very much, lady.

















New York is a magic city of great opportunity.





















Not a very nice list?







Okay, I'll tell you why.



































Am I a bad guy?


I had a job this morning.
And I needed a new suit.





I needed a jacket.






Prison can't be worse than this, take me there!









It's gonna change very soon, and it's gonna get better.

















Well, that's really good.







Are you happy, Eddie?


















I'm the new teacher.

Renee Tabar is gone, stays with his parents until tomorrow night, master tutor.






















Conspiracy is ready.




Mr. South is a good guy.

























































Okay, if you don't know, shut up!






Well, my boy, are we gonna write a lecture this morning?
It's better now.














We'll fight with rotten books and stinking shoes!

Bombarde the old anniversary and all those idiots!
TO THE NEXT OPERATION







Stostrupp 1917, one of the first films about everyday life on the front in World War I, which was shown in cinemas, immediately attracted the attention of millions of viewers.






















We need you.





























Hans for a short distance, Girgl (?
















The last one blows everything up!

The last one blows everything up!









































We're ready to fight. We're ready to stand up against the enemy.




















At 9:00 a.m., the company's got to get to the front line.
































- we should send for a new team. - Exactly.


I want to go, I'm from the assault battalion and I want to go back there though it doesn't matter, of course you know the area better.









































































I need two people to break through the French line and send an important message to the regiment or to the brigade.























It's crucial that you break through to the shelf tonight.






































































To support their allies, the English crashed into German positions with a new, incredible force.































































All right, here we go.

































I need some air.
- anything new?

































Our assault battalion is not gonna look good.









The West Front has been getting cold in the last months of November.




- It's 6:00 in the morning.






Oh, my God, our corporal, was a great man and Fritz, old friend and Beni, and Fritz.



More soldiers like that. And we wouldn't worry about winning at all.






















Come on, light the tree, at his last hour.



Come on, Mommy, don't cry, it's cute guys.









No wonder he's so old.



- No, it's the worst of all.







- Okay. Get it out.











Okay, don't!






























They're cute animals.

Baby, you gave birth to babies!



























Why would a mistress want to do that?




- Old?




Old things. Come on.










I recognized you the first time you came to us. Really?








































It's a big city.
Tell me, in town, really, okay?











Let's give you the latest news.






























Oh, you, my little ones.



























The fog isn't so bad if you can find a hole.





























Paris, you need to get up to the bridge.








They're beautiful things. Very beautiful.



It's real. Good.

























You have beautiful hair.
When you were young, you also had beautiful hair.




























I lost my mind when I saw you with that old bastard.

I finished my lucky flight.

He doesn't need you anymore, let's go for a walk.



Couldn't you fry less?






- Happy amulet?
















Look, I'm ready.



- Is he sick? Yeah, he went to the doctor.










The cards are good.
- Yeah, good ones. So what? - Give me your hand.








- It's okay. It's gonna work.




















I'm here. Life is beautiful.

































My friends, how sweet of you.



Sorry, there's something better.










This way, okay, attention, it was the four spades.











How beautiful you are.



No, you're a miracle.































- You're calmer here.















Bicycles, motorcycles, cars, big and small, black and coloured, beauty.



































She'll be back, master. Maybe any minute now, if not now, he'll be back in the morning.
In the morning?





Who needs this idiot?


















That's better.





































Leave you alone? What did you want?





I'll show you my new record.














That's better.







































Yeah, yeah, okay.

We need to pick up the grain, and he's gonna go for a walk!

Come on, come on in, I'm gonna have to spread the load quickly!





















































This is the first time that Cousin Ezra has called me in 20 years.
March 8, 1912, you already had a meeting at 10:23 a.m.




























I don't need a new tire.
I need my $18.75.







I don't need a new tire.





















...to my deep satisfaction, I can announce a very important decision.



























There's another fruit left from the Oun's family tree, and this fruit isn't very good.




- All the better.
Very good, Mr. Hemingway.














You want to hear a little secret?







Thirty-four shows in New York, but none of them need me.





Besides, I don't need his money.






- Isn't that a bad sign?
- Forget about them, it's okay when we're sitting like this.







































Oh, I can't wait to see the dearest, beloved Ezra.
I'd rather see Jimmy once than 10 million times this old wreck.





Barbara will be glad to see you, Ezra.

And I have some good news for you and Mathilde.

Oh, that's good news, Ezra.

It's better not to even walk by them.



















Come on, come on, you old stump.


I need eyes everywhere.


- Okay, stay like this.


- Good night, Ezra.
- Good night.







- Okay.





It's better than walking to New York.













It's a good thing.









- Good night, Cousin Ezra.
- Good night, Horace.




















- Come on, you better go to bed.




Mathilde, I'm gonna appoint you First Vice President of the Owens Foundation.







- You too, miss, have a good evening.





Me too. I need to see Mr. Hemingway.







Some new insurance agent, ma'am.














- Okay, then I'm here.



























- If you don't need money, then it's just a good show.









































- Okay.












Okay.











This was my last chance.































Okay?






You don't have to come back right now, do you, darling?
God, it's the first night in months when we're together.
Look at the moon, darling.






I need other sets.















I don't know what the weather is like right now, 'cause I'm just looking at you right now, honey.






















































































- I need you for good luck.
- Okay.
Beautiful.
Guys, this is what the theater needs.


That's good.




















Mr. Todd, you're the best person in the world.









I spent the last 200 bucks on this outfit.


























Well, it's a pleasure to meet the unfortunate comrades.






























It's a great music show with the best songs you've ever heard.






It's too bad to start by saying goodbye.













Try to do it my way, darling.




There's a big part for you too.

- Okay.


- Is that all you need?












































- I'm so glad you could make it.





Good night.






















Good night.




- Good night, Horace.
- Good night, darling.










Well, good night, Mathilde.
Good night, Ezra.








- Listen, darling.























Ezra, you should probably go back to bed.


- Good night, Ezra.
- Good night, Mathilde.









Okay, Pete, how about 20 "shoes"?



















- Okay.





You take the last penny from me and call it petty.







































Thank you very much.



Oh, I know a good place where we can eat with good health.




I found the first candidate for exemplary whipping.



































Let him work until we find someone better.







































































Look, listen, honey, maybe your dad's right.

































The more mysterious, the better publicity.






















God, I'm so glad Barbara didn't ask for us.






The loins are ready to yell.










































My first show on Broadway.
Mabel's ready?



I'm ready to lift the curtain over the most important thing in my life, and you're crying so I can stop.



















- I'm ready.











Okay, everybody on stage.







A new recipe, three times stronger than the old one.








They must have prepared the worst for the last time.


And so, of course, it's nice.










I don't feel so good either.













The last two are yours, mister.
And I'm glad.


I don't know what the weather is today, because I only look at you, darling.







Because I only look at you, darling.


















I don't know what the weather is today, because I only look at you, darling.




I don't know what the weather is today because I only look at you, darling.




It's beautiful.
Very, very beautiful.
Oh, very, very, very beautiful.
Ezzy, could you really cut down poor old Horace like a ripe banana?













Okay, do you love me?



If I invest in this show, I want to make sure we have the best music ever.

Good songs attract people to the theater.
The story is what matters.
I'm not gonna put in a cent until we find a better dramatist...

People need songs.
That's right. We need good, energetic music.
You need a good actor in the lead.















Let's be honest, look at beautiful girls.
You spend money on flowers that grow for all these lovely, lovely, young and beautiful girls.





















My great success depends to a great extent on you, beautiful girls.

To tell you the truth, we go to see you, beautiful girls.
We spend our money on flowers that grow for you, sweet and lovely, young and beautiful girls.



How can a show be good without you, beautiful girls?














Very sweet, friendly, young lady.






I knew it was best to stay home.























They're beautiful, aren't they? Let's do it again.


Honey!


Beautiful flowers for a beautiful lady!
My dear, I'm not dead yet.
I don't need flowers.





























Less than that, darling.


















































And at the last moment, some sixth sense told me to roll.




No, no one, not even a florist... even though he flew through the air like a big crow.









What's wrong, darling?






Your whiskey and soda, darling.




Your daughter is in the garden with my son... I mean, our son, darling.
Grazia, darling.

There's something wonderful in the air like an old story you can't completely believe.

Shall we go inside, sweetheart?
Honey, are you okay?
Of course, sweet mommy.









That's sweet.



- Take it, sweetheart.
You'll be quite ready in a month.



You just have to make up your mind.


I'm not ready.



Aren't you happy with me?
Yeah, honey, but that's not exactly what I mean.



I'd better be alone if you don't mind.





Bad night for you, darling?






But mom, no one can live a beautiful life alone.







































































It's too big.

Yes, darling?






You know, I'd love to.






Midnight, and everyone's calm and self-restraint... even the Baron.



Good night.
Good night.
Good night, Rhoda.
Good night, Alda.




Good night.
Good night.











Okay. Good night.
Good night, sir.







Good night.
Good night, sir.

















Perhaps you should sit down.





But please be calm.

This evening, I was standing next to one of you without hurting... that lovely girl in the garden.





It's better now.
I'm sure we'll be good friends soon enough.










I see nice... young, charming.












Yeah, oh, well, of course in that case, I, uh...
I'd love to.

Would it be a big problem for you to take me in?



I... I have a few rooms prepared for an old friend I'm waiting for... for Prince Sirka.


























My wish will be satisfied in an hour... a wish that is old as time.












































Yeah, he's coming, it's okay.













Oh, that wouldn't be so bad if you ran away.









Thank you, my dear Duke.
I'm happy to be here.







It would be a great pleasure for me.

Let me say, I didn't think your country's women were so beautiful.

I wish we didn't have to date... when you're less beautiful and I'm... less kind.







Nice to meet the baron, finally.
And it is a pleasure to meet you, Your Highness.































I've already learned one important thing.
- The rooms are ready, Your Grace. - Oh, yeah.




Good night, my friends.
Good night, Your Highness.











Good morning!
Good morning, Your Highness.




Sleep, darling.




Not at all, my dear.



You know, today's gonna be a good day.
I hope, Rhoda, darling, it's for your own good.


He can't be yours, my dear, so you don't have to come up with anything.





Okay.

Put all your best on, darling!













Good morning!
Good morning, my dear.
Good morning, Your Highness.
Good morning!












Oh, here's your shoe, my dear!



Good morning, good morning!







You know, for years, I haven't felt as good as this morning for food and everything.












Very good.






Excuse me, darling!
Good morning, good morning!
Good morning!

Good morning!



No wonder, darling, you were in such a hurry to get dressed.



And how do you feel this lovely morning?
Very good, thank you.









I'm glad someone started to understand him.










There was a big night attack planned, but nothing worked.



Good morning, good morning.
Oh, the mother of beautiful Grazia!
Good morning.













Shall we go, darling?




It's been a pleasure.
Here we go, darling.





















Five beautiful creatures were dependent on me, at the same time, for their pleasure... and their benefit.



























Okay, but because of that...

























Or a barren piece of land that neither side needs.








This last game of yours, the one you never get tired of, seems to me the weirdest, saddest, and emptyest of all.





I'm good at that. Ha!






I'm the last person in the world to interfere with romance.
You know, it's been a great pleasure... to see you...























































I'm glad to be with you.









I was just hoping to make your last night, uh...
Yeah, my last night.






My dear, can you not think about it?







You're so happy here.



My dear Countess, you can dream of anything you want.

































What is it, darling?


There's no danger, darling.






Alda, my dear.
















I came to you to warm my hands at your fire... your pathetic, pathetic little fire that shimmers in the night.










Okay, Mom.












A beautiful and pure princess, a subject of general delight.



































And I'm happy to be here.





























































I don't care.




















Child, something new was born in me, and I know the meaning of the life that all these people spend here.























- A Surkie who loves you more than any human could love you. - Surkie who needs your warmth and your beauty... more than any human on earth. I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-












You're the very essence of the beautiful that I have to understand.
Oh, Grazia, let me hug you, let me feel the last joy... and realize that I've lived.




































My dear Duke, thank you for pointing out the problem.












































I've confined myself to life, and that's the little rules that she has.














Oh, Grazia, darling, I was so scared!





I know he scares you a little, but I'm happy with him, and I'm safe.

























Grazia, darling, won't you stay with me?










I'm ready. Oh, no.





























It's a great art!



















She wouldn't be too small for her friends.


















- It's important.
- Two minutes, my dear.






















So, good night.






Good news?
























- "Accorded." It's better to say it's bad speculation.








- Let's put down the beautiful words.

It'd be too good to make it easy.


If you prefer to see Martel's name on the front page of the papers, it's your will.

- We don't need your advice.




























































Have a nice day.












I think if you go first to clean things up...


- But darling, when you see me wearing four-soo dresses, I'm sure you'll hate me.

- No, you're gonna be the woman I need.

- I don't care about anything, but I need you to be with me.





























- It's good wine.


















On the Rural Far Piaz, a good ship.
It'd be fun if you saw me with a new contract.
















- The most beautiful city.











- I'm gonna have a big, cold, fresh beer.




























































He's got yellow skin lately.

- These beautiful hands are like the noble ladies of Florence.


























It's good to see you, Pierre.













- I'm going first.


















- That makes me sick.
I'm getting worse.
- Are your pills better?



































- With a sergeant's salary, you can drink a beautiful cognac!











And you're my best friend...




























































- You're cute.









So... "Big game" - full deck?

Go to "Big Game"!

I'm ready to hear everything.
















- Okay, I'll keep quiet.










- I see a good time for you.











It's important!




























Good old Blanche!






















- I'm fine.














It's full of cute chicks!


















- Not first class.






Ladies and gentlemen, last room.





"Others need drugs, champagne, coconuts."









"It's important when we're going on a trip."

"It's important when we're going on a trip."


















































































































































- It's important that I see her again.





















































Honey, I'm here to kiss you.
I'm not gonna talk, honey.

He's ready.





































- Okay.







































- Anyway, this baby's gonna be fine here.
You know, by Saturday you'll be calm.
Are you happy?










- Okay.















- Are you okay?






Good night.








- Good night.
- Good night.
- It's a beautiful atmosphere!






I'm very happy.

















- No, my dear.



- Yes, my dear.




























- I need you.



I want you to be happy!

"I want you to be happy!"



- I want him to be happy too!


















- That's not a good thing to say about the past.















Dear furs, tailor...















It could be because I'm old or because I had diarrhea...







- First pipe, Gasten.




















I've heard of new hormones. There's still a lot to be done.


- Okay.






























































- Okay.

































We need a doctor fast.



















- What do they want?






- It's not gonna be a walk, I need volunteers.

















A lucky legioner is no longer a legioner.
















- And old Russian newspapers.
Old rubles.













































- Oh, you know, my uncle was old, 70, 72...



















There's a big ship leaving the coast in Casablanca...




All right, there's a woman and a man who's happy.


- Pierre, this is too good and unexpected.

- I find it very good.






Here's your two first classes.










Jerry, I present to you Pierre Martel, an old friend.
















Come on, dear friend.



















A little trouble.


I don't know if they'll be ready to leave.




























It's like old times.





















I thought I'd go crazy waiting to meet you again.

















I don't want any more.





















































The first one made the stand, and op!


- She was good.

Let us be happy!










Okay.























- So you'll end up in the bistro, you old drunk!
- Old goat!














Better not be a fool.





































Planning, my dear.





- He's one of the best pilots in this country.








































- Thank you very much.













..you fired the best newspaper you've ever had in your dirty, embarrassing newspaper.


Why didn't you tell me you were gonna write it in Greek? I'd open a new department.


Its cost on printing is equal to a bunch of tests. And it won't cost us more!


















- Is my carriage ready?































What you need is a good nose puff.

















First one in, first one in.


































































Thank you very much.





You're very nice when you're asleep.


















Good morning.














Look, young man, you don't have to worry about me.



























It's awfully important to me.
























The biggest sensation of the year just fell on my lap.





"As much as you'd like to have this story, you're so big..."
























Yes, sir, to a man with a capital letter.













Just shut my big, dirty mouth.

I don't think there's anything better than meeting a mom from a high circle who can stand up for herself.


























































I don't think we can cross the river till morning.
If one of the passengers needs a place to sleep, you'll find a place to stay.





Okay, thanks.







































And as for me, I need your story.



I need that story.

Isn't that nice?




These rooms cost two bucks a night. And I'm very sorry to inform you about this, dear wife, but the family budget won't hold any separate numbers.

Thank you very much.
























I'll give you my best pair of pajamas.







I knew a man who was the last to take off his hat.















Jericho's walls will protect you from a big, scary wolf.
Who's afraid of a big scary wolf?
Big scary wolf.
She's afraid of a big, scary wolf...


You better get your stuff off Jericho's wall.






I'm a soft morning breeze that caressses your cute face.






You'll change your mind tomorrow morning.




































Breakfast's almost ready.












All the best houses have these things outside.

















































What made you so very friendly this morning?











That's gonna make a good story for the article.







This is the first time I've ever been alone with a man.
















I was so crazy, I ran outside and jumped into the first car I saw.

















































A man came to see you, sweetheart.

Do you want me?






































I told you, they're the perfect cute couple.
You know, you were good. I just dived into the role.

- You're not that bad yourself.


We can call it "The Big Lies."
What about Cinderella or a big and passionate love story?









I'm starting to believe, guys, that you couldn't even find your way home. This is the last time I...

















I want the result, Lovington! The result!































I was happy once.

Like an old coat, I'm isodran and torn.
































He scoffed his thumb at his nose,







It's the first comfortable position in the night.






















Here you go, honey.































You're the guy I need.















































Little golden-haired girl...










He was a good guy, just like you, but one day he made a big mistake.



































When we get to the next town, you better get in touch with your dad.























This is the first time I've been riding on my back in years.








I bet your family doesn't have any good riders.


Show me a good catalyst, and I'll show you a real man.

































Your bed is ready.




You know, lately, you've been getting awfully insufferable.























































































It's all about the thumb, you know?




Yeah, but a thumb's never gonna fail.

Here's the first example.


You don't care if they stop or not.




























I'm gonna stop the car, and I'm not gonna use my thumb to do that.



































































































Good night.
Good night.







We're gonna have to figure something out before morning.

I'm glad you think so.











But he seemed like a very nice and nice young man, Ma.

Tomorrow morning, you'll be in the arms of your husband.






I think you should be happy.




There's nothing wrong with seeing you.










I think you could make some girl incredibly happy.
























Everything else doesn't matter.










Look, all I'm asking is the amount of gas I need to get to New York.



Let's do this. When I get back in the morning, I'll buy it back.
























Every time I bumped into a good story, I used it on you, didn't I?


The biggest sensation of the year!








- I need them.
We need it now.









































We wouldn't have known until morning if I hadn't gone up for magnesia.

































You're beautiful!
All women are beautiful!
I think he's still the best journalist on this case.





There's gonna be a whole new pattern.










I need a caricature, and I need it fast.














































































It was just a little joke.
















Well, it's all set.

Westley's on his way out.









Yes. It's nice, isn't it?








You know, your old scumbag isn't what he used to be.




Aren't you happy?


























And this is the beautiful man you fell in love with.











No, it doesn't matter.








It doesn't matter how, where and with whom.




























Just what I need.







- Are you happy?

Why shouldn't I be happy?








- Whatever you say, darling.
































Isn't that nice of her?

















































What she needs is a guy who eventually raised her whether she wants it or not.






























He didn't need a reward.







You can make your old man happy. And you're not gonna hurt yourself.

Dear beloved, we are gathered here today... before the eyes of God and these men... to unite this man and this woman with the bond of holy marriage.

























































It's a good thing I'm leaving.







Sorry to keep you out of work, but it's very important.












But, Dad, I really need to talk to you.






















- Well, if you think everything's gonna be okay...






I've made a very important discovery, and I need to work on it.
A new invention?






















Thank you very much.







- Only in bad weather.

Then you better get home before it gets ruined.
Okay.




Show her there are happy marriages in the world.


- Goodbye, darling.



























- Come on, it doesn't matter.



Do you need anything else?

























I need to give her a wedding present.
Better do it now before I forget it.























































The wife who kicked you out after the first mistake.








They'll be happy to talk to you, considering your biography.



Okay, I'll give it to you.





















Look, a very important thing is the rhythm.
You always need a rhythm when you shake.

For the Bronx, you're gonna need a tusteup.































Don't say that, darling.

























- Hey, honey.

- I invited him this morning.








You should put me first on the list.


















Sit down, sweetheart.







Like you, darling.









- Much better, yours?





The last martini.
































He sends messages through the secretary, Julia Wolfe, when he needs money.
















Very good.















At least she'll be happy to know he's alive.















At least I'm glad he's okay.








- Yes. You need money, and you have no right to do more.


I need to find him!





Then what's a parallel phone for?







I didn't say I was going, but we need money.















- Chris! - Okay. Okay.

- I said good.














No matter, Miss Wolfe is expecting me.































- Okay, girls.


When was the last time you gave her money for Winant?








































- Doesn't matter. Did they find any evidence?





















































- Okay, then I'll do it.













Just a bunch of old friends.

I love old times.


- Good days, old days.

It's good old days.




- Is he good?









Big and small.




Thank you very much.















- Was he a good detective?












The latest news about Wolfe's murder.




Good job for you, Nick.




- You're the one.

We need your statement.










Grandma, what big glasses you have.
























I'd like to call my mom and wish her a happy Christmas.














































































- Oh, Nick. I want to talk to you about something very important.

















But I really want to meet him, and I want to tell him something important.

He thinks all I need is money.








All you have to do is get in touch with him.














You can stay, we'll be happy.
That's very nice of you.













































Oh, Nikki, I love you because you know so many nice people.














I'll tell you some detective stories in the morning.




Honey, my guess is that Vinant killed Julia, and Dorothy knows about it.


My dear...










It must be something important.


- Yes. I have to talk to him, I really need to.
All right, come on in.


- Someone wants to see you, darling.




You're worse than a child.











All right, shoot.
















Stadsy Burke said you were a good guy, so I'm here.





























- Okay.





















- Here, darling, towels.





We thought we'd be better off around here in case the old man showed up.









































We'll come to you tomorrow when you're better.





I'm glad you're out.






But, honey, it's the best gift I've ever had for Christmas.






















But she's so beautiful.


















- Good morning.
I'm afraid it's not a very happy Christmas for you.

- Okay.









I got a letter from Winant this morning.









He gave me a code message to put in the Times if I need to contact him.



It's not good if he's out at a time like this.






Okay.












Merry Christmas.
















- Good morning.
- Good morning.

Not a very good trick on your part to leave the house while you have to rest before I question you.



















































































It's better if you tell me everything first.


























































Look, if you want me to keep acting like an idiot, I need another $5,000.

Okay.















Fine, Mrs. Charles.










I don't think it's important.





The police need a description of him.


They need more than your word.
Okay, I'll tell them who did it.












Honey, you were so cute.



























She's ready to talk.






The first one could be the killer.












"Vinant's ex-wife brought new evidence!"


















































It's okay, Asta.
















Old things, Tanner?


















Okay.




































































































Honey, stop drinking.
















































- Do you have a beautiful evening dress?

Do you have a beautiful evening dress?









































It's a good place to get in trouble.





















Well, I see you're ready.





















You need a drink.



















































You know, Nick interrupted me at a very important moment in my life.
I was just about to take the first wrong step.
































Now, my friends, I'm offering you a little toast.

You have such nice parties, Mr. Charles.


We're here because I have some important news.























































- Tommy! It's awful, I know, but it could have been worse.

















Yeah, that's the best thing I've ever heard of.































Okay.













He even put a belt there with the letter "R" hoping we'd think it was Rosebrin the old enemy of the Vinant who disappeared years ago.









































Telegrams and calls were good, but nobody actually saw Vinant alive.











You got a good price for saying you saw Winant.






















Why are you, you dirty little...











I'm glad you're not a detective.






Honey, it's 1:00 in the morning.















Asta, are you ready?






Damn it, honey, I thought they'd never leave.


























She was a clumsy little girl, and look at her now.



Kihachi was so good when he was young.





Why don't you give him more mocha?


Think of Goemon Isikigawa.













My shoulders have been hurting lately.






He's so big now.











He doesn't need a bad father like me.
There's a big future ahead of him.











Was it big?






























You're gonna be a good chess player.









You must be happy to have such a charming son.





What's wrong with seeing my son?



Who asked the big shot in town for help?



My son belongs to a better world than yours.




























Better get us lucky, like in fairy tales.






















I'm too old for jealousy.


































Okay.







Which could be better.

This is our last night.





























































That's sweet.















What about getting into my new troupe?














Secrets don't have to be understood.










Ah, the lovely little one is the best gift ever!

The one who's been good at it will get a beautiful baby. What's going on here? Why aren't you in bed yet?






























Ladies, beautiful necklaces, bracelets...
Look how beautiful they are!
I'll give it to you for 50 francs, madam.
It's too expensive - 50 francs. - 35?






Thank you, darling...




That's cute!













The stork, my sweet stork...






































No, you better, I'll tell you later.


Is she beautiful, this Manila? - Beautiful?












- Oh, it's so good to be home.






With a good salary...










Look at that beautiful roll!
























A little treasure...














They need an electrician in the theater.



Oh, my little... did you follow me?



Beautiful, isn't it?







































But still with requests! This one must have a beautiful figure.










So you need a gigolo?








All right, girls, the baskets are ready.














There's a guy in the world I need, a character streak, a hole in my pocket,
Beautiful speeches... he's not trained at all.





























Get it all alone... come with me! Look how handsome he is...










I'll explain it to you, my dear!










































- Yes. Beautiful work...


















- Okay. Bravo!







Good night, Claire.










- Good night, Zuzu.
Good night!
- Good night, calm...









But... I don't know, my dear...

It's the last drop! Look, Saint-Levie...

Crime, my dear?
















I told you I had to go.








It'll be ready in 15 minutes!





Are the suits ready? - Yes.






















































The ticketer turns into a star one day...





Okay... well, don't worry...













Oh, the loved ones are always beautiful!















No, it's very nice...



Now turn left... okay. Now this way...



































The caviar will be in the morning and in the evening...















Talk! Say it again! - Dear Tromp...


If you need soap, count on me! The train leaves in 23 minutes. - Okay...


































We need to get a doctor!



Jean, you're so calm...
















































Mom, understand, he needs help!


















If it's in the morning, it's 2,000 francs a month. Not bad in modern times.







- That's it! I need to speak to Monsieur Tromp.




When you need it, it disappears.


Here's the thing, monsieur... I need a lot of...






And I'm ready to do it.

Then we need success. Check yourself out in public!







































- Are you happy? Did it go well?

























































Dear friend, you alone can save me.



Do you need her right now? - Immediately!























There's a guy in the world I need, a character streak, a hole in my pocket, he's not trained to make beautiful speeches,






















Meanwhile, a small chimney cleaner works high above the city.
He's happy that the sun shines on him and is often surprised by the rich living in the houses below him.




And the little chimney-cleaning is just happy being in a luxurious and unusual environment.
Belinda is charmed by the dance of a little chimney chimney and rewards him.












The next morning, a little chimney-cleaner and his master are on their way to work.









But the little tube cleaner knows another way to Belinda's house through the fireplace!







They're followed by Belinda's father and a little chimney cleaner.



Belinda is saved and the hero of the day is a little chimney cleaner!





"Nürnberg's Old Quarter"




























Our benevolence will be an oath to stay with you... in good and bad times... whatever it takes!













Nothing on this earth has happened in the last thousands of years... been collected in simple decades.










Wherever we look, new structures are being built... and new life is being built... that will continue in the future.

















You can take power with power... but it's much better to win with the heart of the nation.

Today, the people of Germany, in a united consensus, are ready... to fulfil their duty in the General Labour Service.










We are ready... to bring Germany into a new era.



























We will provide farmers with new soil... forests and fields, land and bread... for Germany.










You're putting into practice a great idea... and we know that for millions of our national comrades... physical labour will no longer be an empty concept.








Many of you know me... as a member of the SA... marching in the ranks... of the Movement since its early years.












We live in this time that makes us proud and happy.


































Our people experienced a great disaster that forced us to fight... brought us together... and left us great.






































And by giving you new marks of distinction... I place them with confidence... into the hands that I consider to be the most reliable in Germany.


And I salute you as my old, loyal S.A. and S.S. soldiers!



Hitler consecrates the new flags of the gathered units of the Party... to every new flag of the "Name of Blood" (Blutfane) carried by the SS-Standartenfuhrer Jacob Grimminger the same soldier who carried the flag during the failed Munich coup in 1923.
Hitler is hosting a large parade of all NSDAP militias... on Adolf Hitler Square in front of Frauenkirch (Church of God)



















Adolph Hitler's area in the middle of the old part of town


























For millions of Germans... it is a demonstration of political power... and for hundreds of thousands of fighters in our ranks... it is ultimately much larger.
A great personal and spiritual unity... of our old fighters and comrades.


First of all, it must be the Party with an unbelievable ideology.


And since these are the best racial qualities of the German nation... they can, in proud self-respect... have the right to lead the Reich and the people.

The German people are happy... in realizing that the constantly changing direction to the target... has been replaced by a fixed clear course!
Anyone who feels like he's the bearer of the best blood... and consciously uses it to gain power... will never back down from this course!








But only the best National Socialists are Party Comrades!




We can be happy knowing that this future belongs exclusively to us!
When the old of us are shaken... the young will become imbecile and remain so until their bodies are rotten.
























I am pleased to inform you that it is my privilege to introduce to you... the most amazing person in the world.



Every day he learns by heart... 50 new facts and memorizes them all.


























































































































- I don't know where I'm going. A beautiful mystery woman and bandits.









An important secret of this country.





That's too bad.












It doesn't matter.

















- I'll rest until morning.




If everything's gonna be okay, I'm gonna visit someone there.







In just a couple of days, maybe hours... an important secret will be revealed.




Good morning.









A woman was killed on the ground floor.







What a joke at five o'clock in the morning.






The woman on the first floor is married.






















I've never understood anyone who likes old things.




There's a lot of demand these days.
































- Nice and quiet place.
- Good night.





"At 7:00 a.m., the cleaning lady, Elizabeth Briggs..."













Do you need anything, sir?



- I can tell you better.










I just need a few days.
You need this man.


























Last seen in a dark suit, but maybe he changed his clothes. Easy.





You got any old cars like that?

























He'll stay till morning.





















- Why? He says it's best not to know about such depraved places.




- London women are beautiful?





- Dinner's ready?













You'd better go.









































His son, but it doesn't matter.
That's better.


















- Hey, honey.
- Hello. Did you see any strangers this morning?



- No, sir. No one's been here in the last half hour.






Louise, we have a new guest.











- Nice to meet you.





- Nice to meet you.

























Anyway, I'm in court every morning.

Louise, honey, Mr. Hammond and I... we need to talk before lunch.


What about our dear Annabella?













- Dinner's ready.
















And I can't let you go because I'm about to... transmit important information abroad.



















































He's my best friend.

















I am pleased to be able to discuss with him an issue of vital importance to our country... at this crucial time.





- Don't remind me that he's an outstanding statesman and a champion of our rights.

In the diplomatic world... it's one of the brightest figures in the big London.

- It's important for the voters that on these crucial election days... our candidate gets the support of the majority.























I call upon your candidate and all those who are dear to their loved ones to make it possible for us to live in a better world, where there is no inter-ethnic strife and no strife between neighbours, where no one is persecuted, where all things are honored... and people help each other.












- that one important document...















If it's necessary, I'm ready.


















- Less than two hours away.































































































- Okay, sir.


Sign it, sweetheart.
Get used to your new name. That's it." Mr. and Mrs. Henry Hopkinson, Hollyhox, Hammersmith.


















Thank you very much.
Do you need warm water?
- "Yes, sweetheart." - Yeah, honey.




























Your first reasonable thought.
- You need any help?









Okay.









I'm not happy with the prospect of waking up in the morning to see... your monster face in front of me.







The last time I slept in bed was on Saturday, with only a couple of hours.




The first time, I threw up a lot.






At the end of the attack, and finally, a full burglary. He killed the first one when he was 19.



































- Goodbye, darling. - Goodbye.









Okay, ma'am. Right.
























You old bastard.

Good morning.














- It doesn't matter.

















Or did you not realize that this is important?


Honey, I'm charged... with murder and I'm gonna clear myself of suspicion by catching spies.










































Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform you that I am honoured to introduce you to the most amazing man in the world.
- Every day he learns by heart... 50 new facts and memorizes them all.





















You don't need anything.
- It's okay.









The main feature of the new car is the increased compression rate." Ar minus one is greater than A by the magnitude of gamma, where "r" is the indicator of compression and gamma...


























Brother, it's a beautiful hat, isn't it?











This watchman is very bad.














Big rice pillow.
What if it's better?
























Daddy, have a big mug.




















The kids are so beautiful.







































Okay!




















































It's good to have a mom, too.










Childhood is the most beautiful time of life.




I'm happy I'm still alive.



Why, sweetheart.

It's good to move on.
He's a good man, isn't he?










It's good to move on.











I need the money.

I need the money to put her in the hospital.


















Back to your old habits?




I need your help.





























So you needed money for this?




































Jerry, we have a lot to discuss.




















































I sent them a pair of old shoes.


He's been wearing my good shoes ever since.



Beautiful.






































I'm really glad you stopped by.
















I feel a new seizure.















She's beautiful, she's beautiful, she's adorable, and she wants to sleep.













Tell them to grow more by tomorrow.

















- Good morning.
- Good morning.

- Okay, but not for long.





















The thing is, miss, he's a little tired today... after he won the Grand National Prize on Friday.












Easy, Mavis.

In dealing with girls and horses, it's better to let events go their own way.

I told you the horse would take you to the right place.



Buy yourself a new hat.
























That's cute!

























Well, honey, I'm sorry.




























It's a pleasure.





















Okay.





I'm her best defense!
















But, mia, you're making a big mistake.




















Beautiful.

Okay.

















Our attention has been drawn to a small issue of great importance.








































- Much better, thank you, Bates.

















We need to treat it with dirt.






































I need to get these flowers into the morning trash.


We have to go.



- The first act was excellent!
- Okay.


I still have some good news.



The entire Tekkerei Club is in the front row.











The most important night of my life, and she's not.








We're going to Italy in the morning.































































It was a little affair.


















Despite the fact that all men are males, nothing compares to a sense of security with a good, faithful husband. I know.





Beautiful! I arranged for all of us to meet for lunch.





- Okay.
















My dear, this is one of the healthiest places in Europe.

You think this is all a nice joke?



Madge, darling!




















In the park? Honey, it happened at the zoo.



















Did Horace go out on his own lately?










Beautiful.

















Last time I was in Paris, I was 10 years old.




I'm really glad you came by.
My darling!







































Settle down, darling.


Like old times?













Before you make fun of yourself, promise me you won't propose to her until I know more about Madge's past.
Okay, well, find out all about her past, and I'm gonna go plan her future.

- Okay, I promise.





You know, sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I look at him and I feel scared too.















It's good to see you again, Miss Tremont.







You're very sweet, darling.


















Shouldn't you say that all we have to think about is that we matter to each other that we need to live our lives?


























Here or there, but while you're still an old maid, you're gonna be a legitimate prey for wolf-man.
What you really need is a husband who's gonna let you have a private life.


Don't worry, darling.


Honey!
I just said "darling," and she cracked me.













All right, sir.
I can't figure out what's been going on with Madge lately.




Please send a good juicy steak.

















We're a big success!
All the women say these dresses are beautiful.

I'm happy!











He'll make you happy.

I'm rich, I'm good, and then this Hardwick guy's gonna leave you alone.

First of all, I need to get your situation straight, and then I'm gonna ask Madge about Dale.










Come on, sir, cheer up.











You better take off your glasses!














- Madge, darling...








Honey, congratulations on your speed in this case, but who did you find to get married so quickly?

You better hang up, darling.





- Okay.
- Okay? What do we do now?















- It's very nice here.




I'd love to.













That's not good.


























Okay.






















Well, if you're calming down, maybe it's for the best if you don't kill him.

























Boys, if Dale and Jerry are sailing at sea, maybe it's better to help them.









What's wrong with just looking at it?





Jerry, don't come with me.


No, I'm serious. You don't need to be there.







What's the matter, sweetheart?


















- Okay, sir.
- Okay?
It's beautiful!









Jerry, listen to the advice: fly to London on the first plane.



- What do you want?



















Miss Dale, Mr. Harwick thought you should be feared.












A long time ago, in a small village.
He died an old miller who had three sons left.










Dear Master, now I can actually help you.







And bad manners.












Oh, yeah, okay, very good!
















I have news for you, good news, wonderful news.








- Have a good trip, Marquis!
























- Someone smaller, much smaller.

- A little mouse, a little tasty mouse.




THE FIRST SCIENTIFIC AND FANTATIC FILM.


































Designer of the first rocket launcher Academic P. I. Greykh

It's not good to be so annoying.












How happy you are!
You'll be the first person on the moon!
Oxygen aggregate ready to fly.










On that evening, N 128 of Professor Karin's missile went to the moon... with a new one on the 'cact test cat.



The night of the space flight arrived, the last hours of flight preparation arrived.

Well, where do you put so much, darling?


























I'm ready!





















































That I'm small?



































The first astronauts paved the way to Space...
















Just training, darling.





You don't need mystery.
You have something better and more charming.




Honey, pack up.

We need to get ready.
Honey, are you going to?
Yes, darling. I'm just cleaning up the booze.



- Honey, don't you want to pack this?



































Good to see you.

















Don't worry, darling.



Nick, it's good to see you.
Good old Nick, and married too.


Glad we ran into each other.



- Come on, darling.
- But, honey, we can't just leave...







Here you go, darling.
Honey, your acquaintances are the sweetest people in the world.



No, big kegs.













Good to see you.











- If I don't bleed him in the first round...












Oh, you don't know them, darling.

Isn't it beautiful?



New Year's at home.
You know it's New Year's Eve, right?







I'll be asleep at midnight, so happy New Year.
Happy New Year!

















It's New Year's, what's the problem?




























Show me the new capture I taught you.







Let's give your attention to this little surprise party for...















It's good to see you again.































You just have to come, I'm in big trouble, please.
No, I can't tell you, but you need to come.













You know, it's New Year's Eve, Aunt Katherine.
- Old hag.






Okay.






























- Okay.














There's something important I need to tell you.




































How are you, darling?







Yeah, I think I remember those old faces.
Darling, meet Uncle Willie.



Honey, this is Aunt Hetty.








- It's so good to see you.









Are you ready?








































- I'm not kidding, honey, he's gone.













































Don't worry, darling.
It's gonna be okay.



- Well, if he doesn't show up by tomorrow morning, I'll go to the police and see what I can do.


- David, happy New Year!

Nora, it's good to see you.

Selma, how are you, darling?



Let's take David with us and sneak out to celebrate New Year's Eve.
Oh, that's a great idea!

Come on, it's like old times when we were all engaged.








Well, good night then, darling.
- Try not to be sad about New Year's.

- Happy New Year.
- Happy New Year to you, Selma.
- Good night, David.
- Good night.



















It's New Year's, it's decision time.



Let's start New Year's right.




Okay, Henry.



No, you'd better go.


Okay, I'm gonna go.
- Good night, Henry.
- Good night.
Honey, you're gonna try to find Robert, right?






I'm ready to kill this Robert.


- What a cute boy.



$25,000 isn't that much money to never see him again.











Anyway, I'm glad you're back.
- Happy New Year.
- Happy New Year, David.

Well, not everyone should be as lucky as you, darling.







Not now, baby, I need to change.
































































Wow, these are big confetti.

- Well, that's better.






























He's a great guy to be friends with.
















It was good.
















Now, if you'll excuse me, we have to run.






















Okay.


- And our first New Year alone.







- This morning.


You've got a nice table here, you know.


- That's great, you're very kind!






- Waiter, this table doesn't have to be counted.








- Okay, Dancer, if you insist.







Good to see you.

It's an honor to be at your social party.

























I'm almost ready to leave here forever.






My way out. I have to go.



Guys, we're gonna be able to hear another song before New Year's Eve.
Meet Miss Polly Burns with a new song called Dream Smoke.





Every time we meet, he's got a nice new chick.









- Okay, I'll pay you.






It's a lot of money.











You know, it's still better than watching him sit here drunk.
But don't let them warn his wife to get in.

- Okay.








- Glad to be of service.








Go clean your buttons and I'll go my way, you fat bastard," I say.







We need to pack some things.






- Or don't? - Okay.























- Well, calm down, darling.



Okay, honey.






Kiss me goodbye, darling?












Happy New Year, people!
With the new go...







Happy New Year.
Happy New Year to you.
Nora, honey, honey.
Happy New Year.

Yeah, a little accident.


Have you decided what you want for New Year's Eve?







- You look too beautiful in the morning.

Drink, fight, look scary in the morning.
Happy New Year, honey.










You know, I don't like to make remarks, Dancer, but, you know, it doesn't work out very well when you and your partner and your primadonna and your best client are all getting out of here at the same time.


























- You better go.
Selma, I think I need you.

I need Lieutenant Abrams from Homicide.










- I need to know who did it.



























Are you willing to take responsibility by prohibiting me from talking to her?












The first one was this Mrs. Jerry.




In the light of this well-defined accusation, I think you need to insist that a lawyer be present at subsequent discussions with the police.










Don't bother her.

But I need to be there when she wakes up.





- No, of course not, darling.





- No, honey.




- Of course, darling.
But you better lie down and rest.

- You need to take them, darling.



- I need to think.












Hurry! - Okay, I'll tell you.

Before the end of the old year, death struck its ruthless blow, taking the life of Robert Landis's wealthy social hanging.













































I thought I'd get out of there if I didn't want to get in trouble.



















It's a big deal.











































I think we should find him.



















What, he needs to move every time he doesn't kill anybody?

















Good old-fashioned foot grab.














I need...
I need a verbal portrait of your brother.






















Okay.

















I need to pick up this girl.









Who do you want?










It's a good new year starting.




There's something I need to tell you.





But it's important.




- All right, let her out.






Don't worry, darling.

- Did you and Landis have a good relationship?

- In a bad relationship?
- Very bad.













I need to ask your wife a few questions, Mr. Charles.




- I should probably get out.
























It's okay, David.








But I need something else.

- I need to see the gun, Mrs. Landis.













She needs this gun as much as you do.








No, honey, it was a dream.


Do you want eggs, darling?

- No, darling, I don't want to.


- Good night, darling.
- Good night.

Of course I don't cook as well as you do.

Sleep, darling.

You're so cute when you sleep.




I'll have pictures of me in the morning.











No, it's better that way.


























































What a beautiful stone.







Good doggy.










Nicky, you need to call.


Bad Asta.







Good morning, Peters.

- Good morning, Peters.







- Good day?










If you didn't wake me up, you could sleep till morning.








- Good morning.

































That's the first, $75.
- $75, that's better.



Beautiful.











Hey, good doggy.







They're just falsifying his signature from the first check.



Okay.


























Don't worry, darling.




























































All about the big murder!






























Okay.



































And there's a new lock on the door.
















- Yes, darling, that's very nice.




















Honey, don't worry.


























Oh, great.

- Okay.



I'll take the front row seat.










I need to keep an eye on the restaurant, there's no time for that.





































I'm here for the first time.











Did he have a big gray mustache?








































Pedro came here yesterday to make a new carpet.



























































This way, darling.








Okay, darling.




























































































































This morning.




Where were you gonna get the cash today, New Year's Eve?










You said he had a big gray mustache.
Yeah, he had a big long mustache right now, but look at this picture.
That's what he was like six years ago, and his moustache is neither big nor gray.

You remembered him the way you last saw him before you shot him.



























I planted this chaos, fine!






















- Nice job, Abrahams, great job.












Nice work, Lam.


Best detective ever!



So, for a lovely trip abroad.









- Your compartment is ready, madam.

Good night, darling.
- Good night, sweetheart.




















Okay.







And I don't need anything in the world but you, darling. And a toothbrush.

































- Thank you so much for taking care of my welfare.



- Thank you, but I don't need any help.


When I left home, I had the best dowry in town.











































- Good idea!


- Okay.





























- You don't have to explain it to me. I'm not that stupid.
































- Good morning, Omota.

- Omota, I have good news for you.




He visited me this morning.


















- She takes everything from us to the last penny, and she never lets us rest.











He came in this morning and asked us to stay.



















- Very good.






























- I need a new kimono next month.
Do you have any good?





- But they're silk and very expensive.

I don't think you can afford it. The best choice for you is Viscose kimono.
So you'd better pick up somewhere else.




I'd be happy if that were true.
Mr. Kimura, my sister, needs a new kimono for a celebration that will please the highest society.
























It's beautiful!


It's the best I've got for today.





















- I'm glad you came.




















Thank you so much for your support.










I didn't know you had such a beautiful sister.








- How much do you need?






















I'm glad to hear from you.









He's not well after sake.

- Good idea.




Driver, please return to Simoquia Street. - Okay.







- Umakity has such a beautiful sister?






























- She says you're a big man and how lucky you're gonna be to the woman you're gonna be patronizing.



- That would be good, but Mr. Furusawa is your sister's patron.





Who needs a poor old man like him?







- Bring us something to eat, the best.









But if she breaks up with him. I'm ready to think.




- How much do you need?











- Thank you very much.







- That's good with sake.


























































He suddenly left as if he had remembered something important.











- Good morning.






- Okay, I'll take it.


Thank you very much.









- Very happy, and looking forward to meeting you.













You've been making a weird impression lately.















I'm willing to pay for the wedding.












He said he'd help us get married, so it's not that bad.















- Okay.





























- Pretty girl, don't you think she's popular?



































- I'm so glad!
I'm really happy!
If someone like you takes care of me, I'll really be happy.










- It's too good to be true.












- It's so hard to find a beautiful geisha, huh?

























































We haven't seen you lately.



























- What good is there?















Very good.









Beautiful me, I'm geisha.

































- I'm glad to hear it.














- Okay.

































Is the bath ready?















































If you prefer young, I'm ready.































If you need anything, let me know.




- Is she really bad?




- Is she gonna be okay?



















Be a good girl.
































Yes, perhaps Mr. Furusawa is happy. How about you?
Are you happy?





Why does the world need such a profession?







Okay.
We're printing a new front page!


















Okay.


Okay, okay!












This morning, I've already heard the spicy.









- I hope you'll be very happy.

- It's beautiful.



Maybe it's not that bad, Mr. Haggerty.


Well, it's the last way.



- You're urgently needed in the office.
Good old governor!
Good old office!















Jackson wired this morning.






You said nothing would stop you... but you better put on your pants.










You don't need brains.
All you need is a nose!



The only girl we have to treat softly... and you put her name on the front page! What?














































I'll take you on the best trip I can... as soon as we're done here.

Two years of paper was more important than me!






Gladdy, don't get upset, darling.




















Gladdy, darling.






And it's called the happiest day of a girl's life.


I need D.B. Allenbury. It's awful, Haggerty.


















Yeah, we're ready.








Nothing serious, but I thought I'd better call you...























They need a newspaper.










All they needed was money, and they were happy to sort it out.
Allenbury will be happy to take care of it when we deal with her.






But we need something on her... and I'm gonna turn to the best man we've ever had. Who's that?




And you fired him. The best man in defamation suits.










All right, get Haggerty on the line.

















Okay, but hurry up.
























Of course he's a good friend of mine.























- Who's gonna remember the old one, that's right there.


Nice to meet you.
Good morning.













Have you found a good man for dirty business?




Have a nice day.









- Very bad.
Goodbye. - Good morning, Captain.
- Good morning, sir.


Very good, sir.











Okay, we'll talk.



- Elementary, my dear Watson.



























Have you read any good books recently?




































But we're gonna hire some attractive girl to marry me... and when she needs to... she's gonna make a charming scene for her sinful husband and sue Connie for breaking up the family.










We need someone we can trust.












I'm so happy.










But, honey, it's only for a month, maybe even less.













Isn't that right, Bill? - Yeah, if they know you as well as I do.
























You're a good friend.


- Okay.











An old friend of the family.

Honey.
A very old friend.
I hope you'll be very happy... and don't forget to invite me to your silver anniversary.




































Honey, I can't.










Thank you, sweetheart.













But what can I do, sweetheart?











It's a good thing I haven't unpacked them yet.
Waiter, thank you very much.




















It's all set.

Okay.
































Yeah, Daddy, it's okay.

You should be arrested.





























The best rainbow trout is in the lake...

Lake Taupo, New Zealand.
The best rainbow trout is in Lake Taupo in New Zealand.

The best rainbow trout is in Lake Taupo in New Zealand.
The best rainbow trout is in Lake Taupo in New Zealand.



We're very grateful for what you did this morning.










- Reporting's done.



Make sure the plane's ready.
- He'll be ready at noon.
- Okay.
Now, young man, my daughter and I wanted to thank you for everything you've done this morning.

- I was happy to help.











Connie, my dear, I...





Thank you very much.



I'm glad we met at the marina.


I apologize for being rude this morning.











Not if we see them first.
















It was nice to meet you.



Connie, my dear!

My darlings!
It's so good to see you again.








Sorry I'm late, JB, I had to send a very important telegram.
Are you ready for dinner?










- I'm always happy to have dinner with the company.


























The first time you see her.





My dear, I was just talking about my trip to Sierra Nevada.

















Beautiful, aren't they?




Connie, darling!






















- Aren't you sick, darling?





- Good night, Dad.
- Good night, darling.
Good night, Mr. Chandler.





Okay.












I'm glad you have so much in common.







That's sweet.












Okay, then I'll wait in my quarters at 7:00.







- Okay.










How sweet of you to give us an invitation through Connie. She invited you...















It's infinitely better than most people you can meet on a ship.




- At least she's from a good family.



Actually, I'm glad you didn't come.










































No, I'd better stay away.











I look awfully cute in pink.





- I'll bring you an instructor in the morning.
- In the morning?





















Bill, I'll send you an instructor first thing tomorrow morning.


It's gonna be okay, honey.
Good night, Bill.
- Good night, darling.
- Good night, old man.










Good morning.

































Okay, let's talk.




- Good morning.






Good morning, Mr. Evans.















































A breath of air at dawn is the best cure in the world.








Very similar to Lake Taupo in New Zealand.
Come on, we're giving you the honor of starting first.






- Father, darling, you're a punk.


- If he's first class, then I'm traveling third.







A new fishing rod.



He's good.



































The biggest and most elusive bass in Glen Arden.


























One more shot is ready.












- I need to save the figure.

- But we need help, Father.



















Almost as good as dancing.

































Every minute here was beautiful, like today.






I will pay dearly for this happy day.




I bet him on a new plane that you'd turn yourself in in the first 24 hours.












The last person we messed with was an emerald cop.


















You're the first person in years.














- Okay.













































- She left this morning. - That's right.










































If he starts this tomorrow morning, we'll be in jail by tonight.









With a lovely, loving girl willing to do anything for him...










For such a good, sensitive girl.




- Okay.













Besides, it's our last night.














Not the first time.




You're so cute when you say that.
So, I intend to say good night, Mrs. Chandler.


Yeah, I couldn't sleep the last two or three nights.






















But I drive with you every morning.




This is your last boyfriend.



































All they need now is another good scandal.



You take it too seriously, darling.


That's sweet.








I need him!











She was afraid he was hurt by something she told him this morning.












Okay.

















Okay, try it.












































Hello, sweetheart.

- Hello, darling.

Honey, this is Mr. Haggerty from the Star of New York.










































































Okay.
















He's ready to sign with me.














You've been up my ass for the last 10 days, and you've been seeing Connie Allenbury the whole time.





Okay, I'll meet you.























It's very important to a man your age.

























We don't need her mercy.

Like Bill said, for your paper, you're willing to mix our names with dirt, the headline hunter.
Trust me, it's better and better.















Maybe it's better this way.





After all, I want you to be good friends.

Good night, Warren.
- Good night.
- Good night, old man.
- Good night.








































I just came by to give you some good news.




- Okay.



































My dear, she's insane.

















What is it, darling?






































- Okay, sir.









Go, darling.






It's even better for me.
I'm glad you sneaked out here.
It's much better here.




What is it, darling?
We had so much fun together, so much fun.
But, Connie, darling, what happened?


The most important question I've ever asked.
































- I'm really glad you enjoyed it.




















I think it's best if you wait here.




- Okay.


- Okay.
















That I have important information for her.






































It's so good to see you.







































Honey, don't forget the letter.




















Call me in the morning.




























Everyone got their happy ending.








You're a very bad model of a husband.


- And you're 10 times worse than him!






































He probably never noticed what you were wearing, never said how beautiful you were, like Bill did?



- You don't want Bill.




Marriage is too important.


You made a good mess. And all because of trying to steal Gladys!
I wouldn't steal Gladys, even if she was the last female on earth.




















Warren, darling!


It's my fault, darling.
































































Even when I'm acting like a good wife, my husband doesn't pay any attention to me.
When did you act like a good wife? If it comes to that, I think it's over.

"Dear."
"Yes, dear."















- Good morning.













Fujino! Stop flirting with our lovely dispatcher.


She's cute. Really?













I'll give you all the money you need.
































You could try to figure something out. I'd love to help you, but what can I do?












They're ready to sue.




























I hope he can find a good job.
How happy I'm gonna be when he graduates and starts working! Life's gonna get better.

It's better not to have a father at all.












Good morning.
























He needs money to pay for his studies.











What a good day it is.














- That's so sweet of you.


This old house may seem strong, but its roof and plaster will fall apart.



I just picked the right one.













The reason I'm in good shape is in constant burning.
It's a beautiful exercise!



I have to heat the stick first to cure Hisamatsu from his chronic illness. She's waving beautiful kimono sleeves, like inviting a man. Ouch!




















- Wait, honey...
- What? Honey!






You don't want any trouble.






































That's it. I'm glad for you. It's so unexpected.






































Big mistake. - She found out.



























I don't need him.








What I want now is to marry a good man.
That would be best.



Do you think I should tell him?














- He needs money.
It's necessary to graduate from university.
He hasn't paid for his studies yet, and after the university, he'll be looking for a job. - But he needs money to do it.










That's good.







































I need to talk to you. I can't use the phone.













I'm so glad you came.

I'm so happy.
Nice to meet you, too.





















































Be a good boy.



















I'm so glad.














- We need details.












The best thing about your situation is to repent and tell me everything. Excuse me.




































It's her first offense, and she seems to regret it. We're letting her go. I apologize for all the trouble I've caused.













I'm so happy!




























































I was born in Pangolas, a small beautiful town in Wolfuz whose bell tower is visible when you go to Tiyak... from Cawayon.

Our family was big.
My mother had two children from her first marriage.





























Uncle's "killer" is the last to die in terrible torment.
























I don't know why, but I thought he was small, thin and smiling.


I didn't make a good impression on him either.















She hated me at first sight,














That's too bad. It's disgusting to do this to me, who hasn't had the right instincts yet, but who had a huge desire to become and remain honest.











It's the first time I've seen someone called rich.

Oh, one day I'll be one of them!






What good does that do you?
























Fashion has changed since then and these lovely ladies and gentlemen seem a little funny today as we will look a little silly 40 years later.


"Come out, dear monsieur."
"Come in, dear lady."





"Follow the brunette with the old gentleman by the window."






With good references, a month later, I became a doorman at La Rue's restaurant in Madeleine Square.
















Put his hand on mine, he seemed to regret that he couldn't tell me more.



But at 4:00 a.m., someone knocked on my door.



By 7:00 A.M., it was all decided the roles were distributed.


































The palace is ruled by the Prince. The Prince is vigilantly guarding a handsome little army.












Some of them are so big that one is blocking the other.
If you get kicked out of Monaco one day, all you have to do is change the hotel room.
It was in Monte Carlo that I first...
















- It's me. - Okay, madam.


Thank you very much.




















He was cute, with his little bouquet that fell on his forehead.








- Thank you very much.




Can I ask you a little favor?











For the last time, can I ask you a question?


- Thank you very much.





Angulem is not a bad city, but three years is too much.
There was a kind of music cafe with a bad reputation where we were going to have fun in the evenings.
















Big Jules put it down.

















A family of five who thought they were the best in the world.


"Be nice, pick your mom next time!"










We talked like old buddies.

















A beautiful, pale face that I will never forget.



















It doesn't matter, the ladies will be happy with that, too.


I've decided to have a good breakfast in the best inn in town.

A little miracle with a view of an angel with a charming smile.






When she took my hand, she said, "You're the man I need."




But there was a mystery in her eyes this morning.







"Oh, clean up well, my dear!"






And she told me she was stealing from big hotels. She asked me to be her accomplice.








"Okay, thank you. Put it there and leave us."
"And you, please, put the biggest suitcase on the bed."
















"Is everything okay?" "It's okay." "Is everything ready?" "It's all set."



"Okay, madam. Okay, madam."






Oh, that's expensive!"
"Ma'am, that's a good price." "For 300,000, I'll take it."













"Honey, isn't my ring beautiful?"



















Brunette, wide forehead, thick eyebrows... beautiful eyes, curled nose on a triangular face almost tragic when she's serious and immediately childish when she smiles.

















"Okay, madam."















By the time the new croupier arrived, she had won 11,000 francs.








She was celebrating and it was so beautiful.



























And I threw my first balloon.
"A third cylinder. Okay."





















Throwing out zero is good, but five times in a row, it's very serious!















This is the best exercise ever.






I dug up an old, naive Royalist who became my test subject.




Be happy.

As soon as I got ready, I started poker.

"Pas." "Okay."



















Okay!



Here's your first card.


















My wife and my little thief are together.

They seemed just as young and beautiful to me.
My little thief still looked like a graceful bird.












"Very good."
























He's got nine, too. That's so good!

I repeated "no" so quickly that everyone looked at me and Charbonier leaned over to get a better look at me.






























Something much more important has happened.

It's not even better... even worse!








I saw her in a new light.























"Here's the man you need."



- Okay!
- How good?

















You really are the man I need. Listen to me...
Listen, listen... don't ask me to steal from the big hotels.
- No, I'm not! In the little...
- Small?



I checked, it's full of art and other expensive things.



And my new profession won't let that happen.

















I need new adventures!
I remember your last adventure, sir, so I can't share your enthusiasm!

Don't you understand, I'm not like everyone else, I need strong feelings!










Well, Jeeves, it's all good on paper, but I...


I'd recommend you rest in a quiet and quiet place outside the city.
Yes, Jeeves, there are quiet and quiet places in the province.
Jeeves, don't you understand, I need something exciting.










But I'm not ready for great adventures, sir!












But, Jeeves, you have nothing to complain about, I bought you a new coat, didn't I?








But you're gonna have some new dangerous adventures...
I'm afraid I'll have to leave you early in the morning.
Well, that's fine.



- Very good, sir.




























And this funny little hat, let me take it. It's gonna dry up soon.















Oh, it's fine, it's fine.
That's good.









- All right, take her stuff. - What am I supposed to do with them?







- It's embarrassing, it's not good, it's bad, and if it's a beautiful city...











Good night, Jeeves. - Good night, sir.

I need to call the hotel, please.



Yeah, the quiet marina hotel, and, please, hurry, it's very important.


I need Mr. McDermot to connect, please.



- All right, connect, and I'll listen.


I'm all right, how are you, darling?











- Good morning, Jeeves.
- Good morning, sir.













Oh, my God, Jeeves, a beautiful girl came into my house and you let her go!






- Is there a beautiful landscape?
- Beautiful, sir.




I'm happy you've changed your mind, and I'm sure you won't regret it.











- Oh, good.



- Is today gonna be a good day, Jeeves?




Oh, that water, the water from the creek, we're little wolfs, and you and me.




And as adults, take it out on the moon! - That's it, that's good!




Okay! Okay!

We're little wolfs, and you and me.























- Can you tell me why you need this object, what's on your neck?





- Sit back, okay?














- And not well, sir.













We'd better roll!
My dear, you can't defend yourself with this, but you can cut yourself seriously, you better get rid of it!

I suggest we stop immediately, sir, or we'll be in big trouble!







































- My master needs a quiet and quiet rest.









What's the big deal? She stole extremely important government documents.







Okay, thanks. You search him first.















































And this morning, Wooster and his servant got out of the house, got in the car and left!






I'm afraid he's gonna have to wait for her there for a very long time, because I met this girl here in this hotel this morning.










Not bad at all, Jeeves, the last mile we passed in one minute and twelve seconds.

Oh, it's beautiful here, Jeeves.


Anyway, it's a lovely place to rest quietly. - I believe this is the most peaceful place in England, sir.





















- Very good, sir. Take Mr. Wooster to his room.


Okay.















No, thank you, I don't need your help.


You're right, Jeeves! It's beautiful in here!
- It was beautiful here, sir.




























































What do you want?
















Thank you very much.








I think you'd better go. I'm sick of all this nonsense.


But what I can do is you're so beautiful.





I'm gonna take this bullet thing out of him, so it's gonna be a lot easier for us.



Marjorie, you're gonna let me call you Marjorie, of course, yes, Marjorie, change your way of life, you're too young and beautiful, why do you have to stay in prison for years?








Okay. No, I can't leave until I do what I came for!



Leave those tricks alone. I've learned that you borrowed some government-owned documents, and I'm telling you straight, you're being followed by a large group of detectives.

Okay, I'll tell you everything.












Oh, no, I haven't told you the most important thing yet!












I don't understand why you don't want to change your miserable life for the better!
I had a very happy life before you showed up.




The government will have them tomorrow morning.









You're much prettier than... other women.
How nice of you to say that.



Goodbye, my... darling.





























What a beautiful hat you have.
I understand your concern, gentlemen, and I assure you, everything will be settled tomorrow morning!










I'm telling you, it's gonna be okay. I'm guessing tomorrow you're gonna be writing reports on this case, and you can point out that Bertie Wooster... sorted it out.





Fine, fine, I'll be very happy, we'll meet for a drink, but don't forget to tell your superiors that we've solved this case together!






















You treat her very carefully, she's my most precious treasure!




Yeah, well, I'll just help the lady sit down. Please, have a seat.







Okay, I'm gonna sit in that chair across the street.
So, Mrs. Lowman, you'll save yourself a lot of trouble if you give me the devil.













As you can see, your plan failed. Marjorie, I think you'd better come clean.


Well, that's very good.





The next intervention will be your last.





Are you feeling better?









I'd do anything to save you.

























Very good, sir.






























































I'm afraid we need a blacksmith here, Mr Wooster.





Don't thank me, all I need is your eternal friendship and affection and everything.














- Good morning, Patrick.


Breakfast's ready.





- Buy a new one.









Guilty, and the first morning.














It's all set, as you said, sir.













- That's nice.










That big one's mine.











Oh, it's too big.




















- Yes, darling.





Honey!



















- It's good to be home?

Yeah, this Ellen is pretty cute.




Good morning, Mr. Stanhop.
Glad you're back.
Nice to meet you, too, Sam.
Good morning, Mr. Stanhop.
Good to see you.
Good morning, Mr....





I'm glad to be back, too, thank you.
Good morning, V.S. Damn, it's good to see you.

Nice to meet you, too.
- Good morning, Miss Spence.
- Good morning.
Good morning.
Glad to be back.
- Oh, good morning, Mr. Stanhop.
- Good morning, Mary.
That's good.


Maybe I haven't seen him in a while, but he's gotta look better than that.





















They didn't finish until this morning.









From the traditional meeting, from morning to evening.


- Good idea, huh?















We need your approval for these new colour paintings.




- Okay, thank you, V.S.
- Okay.






- Thank you, V.S. I'm glad.
- Okay.








New paragraph.

Use a new lipstick stick!"









Well, we're not gonna find anything better than Bucknell, V.S.
The portrait itself is good, but it's not good enough for our story.






No, it's gonna take some trick to attract them.








She'll be sitting behind the counter at the pharmacy, a very beautiful girl with a straw in her mouth, and drinking from a glass of soda.
You'll be able to see her beautiful lips pulled out with a tube.












We've been advertising Pandor's cream for nine years, and we've always made good profits from it.







Okay, I'll think about it.













The national weekly is now a tasty piece, and with our editing and promotional campaign, we're gonna make it the best five-cent weekly in the country.

Well, Underwood's an old weirdo, and he's ready to give up.



So you have to be careful and keep it a secret.

















Oh, that's bad.










- Hey, honey...
Mimi, darling!







Your mother wanted to see your new office. Me too.


Just for a little while, darling. I don't have a minute to spare.


Look, okay?







It's very nice.
Very, very nice.










Oh, honey.

I'm so glad you like it, Mrs. Stanhop.



Come on, Mimi, darling, before we get kicked out.
You know, Whitey, write down everything I need to do on this case, and forget about it until tomorrow.

That old bastard can see right through.
I bet he knows our moves better than we do.
I've never given you advice before, haven't I, darling?

Okay, then I'll recommend something now.





You know, honey, I've seen a lot more than you, and I know the Stanhops better.


Mimi, darling, Van's been surrounded all his life by beautiful women, not only Miss Wilson, but also models, attractive actresses whose photos he prints...






It's very simple and expensive, Mimi, darling.








I understand your point of view, darling, it's all very modern and noble.


She's as important to him at work as I am at home.

























- Come on, say it a little louder, darling. Stop insinuating.
- All you need to do to get a divorce is just say a few words.

For the last 10 years, I've been trying to pick up a few words.











They're in a little safe.


No, it's okay, V.S.

Okay.


If you think it's a good job, I don't think so.



Dave, this is important.








































Relax, darling.
It's their third anniversary, not their first.





































- That's better.









I don't understand women who think work is a bad habit to learn from while spending every penny they earn.
That's cute!



I don't think Van's the kind of man you need to worry about.

- Good night, darling.
- Good night.


- Good night, sweetheart.
- Good night, Joan.





I'm the best, aren't I?
Best.

You know, someday when we're both in wheelchairs and my rheumatism won't torture me, watch out, honey.
I've worked for a lot of people, but he's definitely the best.



And he's got the best wife.
- You know, I'm willing to do anything for her.
- Yeah, she's awfully cute.
But how he behaves, especially with the big shots. Always fooling around, fooling around...








- Good night, Miss Wilson.
- Good night, Finney, and thank you.

























































Honey, are you gonna file a resignation tomorrow?
















They all had an uninteresting job, and they're happy to be home.
But you have a good job, and you're getting more attached to it, and you're going to parties like tonight, dating people like Stanhops.
You know, it's corrupting you, sweetheart.









Honey, we're gonna take care of this.
We'll do what's best for us.




Sir, if my legs weren't sore, I'd give you the biggest fine of your life.



















He won't talk business for the first couple hours.






It doesn't matter.

Van, I have a brand-new steam cell, an invention of some weirdo from Belgium, and it's a wonderful toy.










I need your advice.




You're a smart young battle rooster, Van, but I'm not old enough to be afraid to fall for you.



By the way, if you're counting on a lot of circulation, I have a better idea.


Why don't you take something ready?




But it's too expensive.



- You have to admit, that's a good idea.



It's probably all in the new steamer.







- How did you get dressed this morning?


- Okay.
- She's too good for you.










For the last 20 minutes, he's been telling me to buy his magazine.










Good night.
Good night.





- But we're better.

















You know, once you take three spades tonight, I'm definitely gonna break your beautiful neck.















What is it, darling?



I realized it took time to keep myself in shape.





























Have dinner, and then buy Molly a little can.




























- Okay.


























Beautiful.
Yeah, isn't it beautiful?














Honey, are you kidding me?








And I don't need your ring.
I guess you never needed it.

- Okay.









How's your cold, darling?










You know, it's amazing how you can manipulate logic in the right direction.


I'd love to see her promoted.






After all, Van, she's a very beautiful girl.





















No, darling.













- Okay.



Good night.
- Good night.
- Good night.






Okay.

Honey.

No, no, honey.














Buy yourself more beautiful things, and be ready.
- Oh, honey.
- Oh, honey.




Oh, you caught a cold, V.S. And on such a beautiful morning, it must be driving me crazy.




- Okay.






There's an old Chinese saying:




And for the final report, it's better to hire a private accountant from the outside,










Looks like the old kid didn't lie about his circulation.










But I keep thinking maybe the old fox Underwood tricked me.

















Yeah, you better stay there for a few weeks.
That's what's best.









V.S. I think it's best if you go on your own.





















Oh, honey.




"Are you good enough for her?"





"Well, since there's no one better than me, hold her tight."




No, darling.




But, honey, this isn't the trip we've been dreaming of.




But, darling, I won't have time for you, honestly.



Oh, honey. I'm gonna miss you so much.











The agency says you've been working for the publisher for the last time.








We've been receiving income reports from all of the country's informative agencies, and we've been looking through all the advertising publications over the past two years to see how much they make, but these were rough estimates, we didn't know their true value.

















Okay, connect.














- Okay, you guys.


Then get all the paperwork out of the safe, and get on the first plane here.



- Okay.





Definitely, Underwood, the old con man, is poking around about Hanson.


If I give you all the available typewriters and a dozen typists ready to die for our cause, can you build a beautiful contract for Mr. Underwood by tomorrow night?


















Nice to meet you, too.









- Yeah, we need to hurry.







- Okay.
You'd better get some rest.









You'd better go to my room.
Okay.
- Good night and good morning.

...I'm posting ads, it's a contribution to American civilization, a big contribution.
Everyone needs thousands of basic necessities.


- Tomorrow morning.

It's important.

I don't need a board of directors.








You know, then you need a drink.









Yeah, but making such big deals here in the hotel room...





I'm so happy for you.
















Good night.






That's a good idea.
You better get out of here.






























- Good night.
- Good night.
Good morning, sir.
Very pleased to have you back, sir.



Good morning, Ellen.





Okay, tell Mrs. Stanhop I'm back and I want to see her.

- Good morning.





















And that's, like, the biggest deal I've ever made.



















Oh, Linda, darling.



I'd love to.



















My dear, all men are like this.


























Mrs. Carstairs ready?
















We need each other.




















We've been kicked out of better places.
And where the whiskey was better.












I need someone to talk to, someone with a long gray beard.





























You'd better go.















I'm not the only one he needs, but he'll be happy.
Not as happy as he was, not as happy as he could be with you, but as happy as anyone else.


You're an idiot, but I'm happy about it.


I thought I'd better send the letters today.























Mom, is the big boat that my brother left on like this?






- Well, there are good ones.


I believe he's become a big man.






The harsh nature of a small land where so many people live.

At least the most important.















And it would have been bad for our old country, Nippon... if we hadn't learned that from you... then probably Japan wouldn't be free right now.









Look at the steam pipe.






Your father, a descendant of the old samurai, cultivates rice at the foot of Mount Fuji.



































Beautiful name!






I'm so happy!






















I'll be better... he likes me.







We have two faces, one old and one new.







Your ship arrived early. Unfortunately, we won't be here until tomorrow morning. Your foster father and Mitsuko.
- Bad news?
My foster father is coming tomorrow morning.










So the poor girl spent all these years preparing for one-- one day becoming your wife.



I should've thought about it before. For a man who has waited eight years for this marriage, your decision could be a disaster.

























Well, okay.




I'm so glad you're back.


You didn't have to come on purpose.

I am pleased to welcome my son's colleague.











That's the most important thing I've ever learned in Europe.














Mitsuko is very glad... that you came to see her.


I'm very happy.
It's beautiful, isn't it?






It can become a new rich land that will feed a lot more people if it is properly cultivated.
But first, there must be peace and order.







Uh... they have no idea what... what... I need.





















Is spring also beautiful? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,










Not very well.



I've always believed that the day would come, and you'll remember your old teacher.




My son, it's been a long time since you listened to your old teacher's voice. There, in the West, you've learned a lot, you've learned a lot about what's called "modern."
And you're absolutely right in putting great hope in that Western wisdom.


And it's a good thing you inhaled some of that Western spirit. This spirit is essential if our old Japan is to survive in the struggle for a living space.
But old wisdom should not be forgotten. Remember what I taught you!


You, as a unit, individuality is not so important, for you are only a small link in the long chain of your ancestors.
But without this little link, the whole chain will spread out.









Yeah, it's okay, Father.
Good thing you're here!
My little sister Emiko!





It's a good thing you came home.


It's a good land, but it's old.
It's really old land.
Mr. Yamato is very pleased that you accepted his invitation!













I hear the words of the old samurai.



I don't need this anymore.







Well, are you okay?



In these little Japanese women, it's the same volcanic temper as in the men of this volcanic country, and one day... either the volcano is exploding or...






My dear son! The dissolution of the marriage contract is contrary to the ancient traditions of our people. This could mean you're gonna have to leave our family.




Okay.
Ah, what a beautiful kimono!










Do you have to put it on?






Dear Teruo!

Take care of your little Mitsuko.







Okay, I will.
It's better if we don't meet him.





No, you have to eat with sticks.























You have a very beautiful house.















It doesn't matter what he says. She's gonna be a good wife to him, and everything's gonna be okay.













Dear Teruo! When you come, you're not gonna catch me. And later, you'll realize I'm right.





























She was a good friend to you.
And you... will be a good wife to me.




See how tired your old father is. It's a hard job to plow the field, sow and remove the rice.



But one old father of yours knows:



This is your new land!
















Yeah, you afraid of your little wife?





























Good dog! Mommy's gone, huh?












I'd be happy if Lucy went out for some fun sometimes.





But don't expect me to prove even greater latitude.









- Hey, honey!

Hey, Patsy, honey.



Thank you so much!
Do you know Armand Duval, darling?







Hey, honey.





















- You're right, my dear.

































I appreciate your generosity, but you'd better leave.















Do you really want to leave?


- Maybe it's the best solution.




Thank you so much for everything.




Of course he's better with humor than I am!



- Marriage doesn't matter to you? - It's important.




Nope. You knew the letter could wait till morning, but Armand Duval...









You think the best defense is assault?







- His car's old.










After that, I refuse to live with you, so get a divorce, I'll be happy!





























Lucy, honey, marriage is marriage!



From now on, the plaintiff and the defendant will be able to remarry.






















I first saw a dog at a pet store on Madison Avenue.




















































There are a dozen men willing to do anything for a chance to be with you.
You're dressed, ready to go, and you refuse again.







Well, if the laws haven't changed, I don't need an escort to drink.


And not so bad, by the way.



Look how cute he is.























































































"Give me a house where cow herds... "Good morning, Ma.

You came back in the morning.





Yeah, I like Dan, he's nice, he's caring.

We needed someone in the company.
I didn't plan any more.













It's not bad, but the real feeling is a rare guest.

Look at me, you're gonna be an old tennis ball.







I hope he's the best man I've ever met.










Didn't hear the best joke of the year: "Isn't that the woman I saw you with?"

You know, this is the best place in town.

Maybe it's because I'm so happy.


- I've been hoping for this since I first met you.
















I was so glad to hear about it. I said to myself, "This Lison is what Lucy wants."


- It's nice, isn't it?

- I'm glad this place is like mine.











Thank you. Nice of you to say that.


















New York is good for the other side, I wouldn't want to live here.








I told Mr. Lison, I mean, Daniel, how bad we are, and he thinks he's gonna do better.



























All right, sir.














- I'm so glad you came by.



But just a weird thing, I can't find the last financial report.



She's always hiding everything that's important in the dresser.







I'm sure I didn't need any ice water.
You don't need it?






















You've been celebrated from the best side.



About you singing divinely, my dear.










- Let's get back to business, okay?






















She's as clean as fresh snow,..and as true as beautiful.







How can you know the feelings of someone who took her best years?







And I'm sure the three of you will be happy in your wild West.



















You need them, don't you?


- The worst steps are behind us.








...I'm definitely getting better.
















Take a better look at him, it'll do you good.









- I'll be ready in a moment.






It's just that we've never kissed before, and this isn't the best place.









"That day will be a happy day,

Dan, that's just great!
Really, it's beautiful.







You made me the happiest!



I'm so happy I can eat three steaks!





All right, this time is good for me.

























5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30... ready?











- But a woman needs reliability.

- And it would be better if Mr. Leeson wasn't found.












So you ran to Lison like he was the last man.













































































Nonsense, just an old mirror.












- Okay.







Yeah, that's much better.


















Lucy, you didn't come by this morning, as usual.






















Well, the man's best friend is his mother.
















Barbara Vance is very nice, and Jerry's having a good time with her.








- That's so sweet.


This morning's paper has such a nice picture of you and Barbara.
And a beautiful signature: "From the past to the future."


I think Barbara and I will be very happy.



















To our new ways of life. You'll go your way of life, and I'll go mine.






I remember the first time.










It was a good time.

But everything beautiful must end. I think it's time to draw a line.

















Hello, darling.


















Okay, honey, I'm gonna make sure you guys get to know each other.

- And my best...


- Well, I would do anything for you.





















Barbara, a happy family life doesn't tolerate suspicion.







I'm afraid she needs to go back to Paris.



















- Hello. - Nice to meet you.





- Good afternoon. - Nice to meet you.




- Yes, darling?


- Nice to meet you.




















They don't drink anything all night, and then all of a sudden, they're on the floor, and they're ready.






- Okay.
















Oh, I'm sorry, darling!



- My father sent the best garden architect to Princeton.



- That's right. He's good to me.
































Good night.
Have a good day!






























Are you still hoping for the old one?












Beautiful!





























- My brakes are bad.








- That's great!






- I'm very happy.
- Nice to meet you. - Hello.

Will you deliver my car in the morning?




















- Okay.













































































- Sorry, sir. - Nothing, darling. Nothing good!
Good morning, sir.

- They're pretty cute.













It's another three fifty a week, and they're oh, how we need them.
















































































Although it's a sin for me to complain, that's what it's like for those with big families...


























Don't worry, I don't want any trouble.



































Well, that's what I'm talking about. I'm glad I'm not as slutty as you are.

I can afford the best.



















































Shut up, you old wallet!













Good morning.





And I go to the most expensive restaurants, and I miss it so much.






Beautiful.

Looks like the boat's ready to sail.























Yeah, okay.









He's a good guy. He's a quick learner.












































































It doesn't matter how. First thing we have to do is beat the leader.















































- No, I need him. Honestly.








- It's okay. - Thank you very much.






- No, he can't. Why? He's a good guy.









Guys, why don't we take him with us? He's a good guy.






Mom, aren't you glad to see me?
That's how happy I am! You bastard!













I wish you were dead.


























Yes. And very good.


It's so important to me.



It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay.
























I know this house so well, like I built it myself.
He's always young and handsome.





































These guys aren't as bad as they look.







































But he's a big shot. He's got a brother who's a judge.





















And every night, a new girl.


















It's so good to see you.
- I'm not good enough for you? - No, come on.



























- Honey, give me 20 more bucks?
















Run at first call, you know.































I've always taught him only good things.



Enemy... what good do they see in life?






Yeah, you always said you'd take down all those slums someday and build good houses where happy people would live.

One thing that matters to you is to get her! So go see her. And try to forget about us!











































That's not very good.





Okay. Give me a couple hours.






































The wound is shallow, but it needs to be treated.
































I'll do the autopsy in the morning.







































Why do you need him?


We need him.









Why, is it so important to find this guy?
It may not matter to you, but it's important to me.





The paper can't lie. But that's not what happened. It is reported that his last thoughts were about his mother,
And a chubby pink woman who lives in a beautiful cottage in Sunnyside in Long Island."






















































































Not at all. I don't need a year of fun. That's not what I wanted.





It's a good thing we figured that out now.






How many were there! Small, big.












- My potatoes are ready! - The biggest potato is mine!


































She's young and beautiful.
And deserves more.





































He gave up because he thought it would be better.








I'll get him out of here. He's a good guy, and he's smart.










He'll be better off where he's going.
























We're gonna get Tommy out. We'll find him the best lawyer in the morning.





You need that money to go with her.






Drina! - Drina! - We're coming, darling!




I'm ready to die, only if someone loves me..."
Okay, Doctor.
Thank you very much.





Young lady, you need to write a statement.













































Okay.







Okay, here we go.













Not bad.

























You'd better not work tomorrow. I'm gonna fix the bandage.





Bad food, exhaustion.




When was the last time you ate?
I feel good now.











I'll make a new woman out of you.

It's better this way.
























However, Dr. Vicks abandoned the method, took a portion of the abdominal muscles and sewed them into the liver, leading to more bleeding.








Dr. Wicks was the first performer.



A staff member who first uses new techniques in surgery deliberately exposes the hospital to legal and criminal responsibility.










You're showing great success, Kilder.











And if you succeed in making something new... and the best, you can count on my protection.










I don't need them anymore.







Yeah, it's gonna be something new.





























What do you need?






































































































Better get him to the hospital.











We need to get him across the street.

Okay, that's your choice.






Come on. Easy.





You better get out of here now.











Find me the biggest needle, and hurry up.

I need an ice pick and a lemon squeezer.




Hey, I need a couple bowls, a pot, anything.


Okay.


It's the best, doc, 14 years old.





































You're a good assistant.
Thank you very much.








Well, is it better now?


They couldn't choose the best doctor to weaken.





I needed to see someone...






I mean, something good that I like.

Okay, remember, I'll see you at the clinic tomorrow.
You're not just my patient, you're my first assistant now.
But I'm a bad assistant.















I was at your place this morning.
Good morning, Mrs Mooney.


No, thank you, darling.






All right. We need to help our neighbor.
















Maybe you won't need Innes after all.




















I know I'm trusting, but every chance is important to me.









































How old was she the last time you saw her?








I hope she's here, my dear.










But, my dear, I must warn you again.



I'm sorry, my dear.
















You're the worst butler I've ever had.







Then, Grot, my good man, let it be a lesson for you.
























It's good to see you.


You know, a cute girl like you doesn't have to think.









































I wouldn't think about it if I were you, maybe I'm the last chance to find your baby.


















I'm wearing my new suit.























Okay, the patient has to come back.
























Okay.













































I'm willing to take my chances.





Okay, come on.






I've been cooking on the same burner for the last three years, you know.











One of the new V8s.




















Two bucks a visit is very good.







You know, you have an appetite like a little bird.


Okay.




















Well, if the money was mine, I'd be happy to help you, but that money has to go back to where it came from.
















Okay.





Well, I have to get back to the hospital.












The guys at the hospital for the chocolate cake are ready for anything.




I'm glad you came.

















I did a little investigation this morning.




























I have a good place in mind. Maybe you'd agree.


Whatever you think, come. You're gonna need some new clothes.
Yours isn't very good.





























My money isn't good enough for you, is it?








- That's good.























Well, yeah, okay, but...


































I'll make a new bandage.

































She left nothing but a coffee pot and an old pair of silk stockings.




She was dressed in beautiful clothes, and tears flowed over her face.








Five minutes later, I came with tea, and she left with the suitcase, and the rent was on the dresser, all of it, until the last cent.





















Hey, I don't want any trouble.















Okay.



















I didn't mean to bother you, but it's important.








I need help right now, and hurry.
































We need to find Innes with the lady.




Okay.






























- Come on, darling.











- He pulled the gun out first!


































And remember, you need a lot of stitching material.












































































We have to wait and watch.















































Oh, my God, it's so good to see you!




I got a little cold, but it's okay.







Let Pa tell you.

Oh, they're good.




That's a familiar picture. Pa's in that old chair.


Oh, my God, it's good to see you, Dad.




As for you, I don't know the last time I saw you.

















- Oh, no, honey.
























Yeah, I'm fine.
Except in the last line, you're wrong.

























































Well, it wasn't your mother's job to keep an eye on such a big house anyway.

I know Nellie will tell you Harvey has nothing worse to do.

You'd be surprised if you knew how bad they are.
















We can't wait for more.







That's awfully sweet of you, George, but my dad and I thought that whatever it was always sticking to...



We're planning more than you and Cora.



That's better.






It's good to live with your kids.










Yesterday he was an old, ancient antiques, and today he's a portrait of his grandfather.









By the way, I haven't seen your friends lately.









- Hello, Dad! - Honey.

Okay.
Honey.
















































George, I've never heard any more nonsense in my life. Trying to get Nellie to pick me up, get me to stay in the room.




George is just thinking about you, darling.




Okay.

- You think he's okay?
- Of course it's good.


Is my tux ready? Yes.



































Overcolm can be carried out with a less powerful hand than the first application, a fact that the partner must keep in mind.


















By the way, good hand from worms.
















Why? I'll be happy to do everything I can.



- Thank you, darling.


An old joke about a guy taking responsibility for a friend's business.








- That's a good show, isn't it?


















- It was good.

Places are sad, but the end is happy.


A good young man, I mean.
And, you know, no matter how bad things go...



















Oh, I'm good.


















That's all the bad stuff.



And don't worry, okay?



Well, it's... it's expensive.
You could buy yourself a nice warm scarf for that money.
Okay, Bark.

Goodbye, my dear.


Good night, everyone.
- Good night.
- Good night, Mother.






















She's a good girl.





In general, I have good kids, I'm proud of them.


I don't need them, they don't need me.























I'll miss our conversations when you leave, Mr. Cooper, but I'm glad for you.





He just bought Harrison's farm, and he needs a caretaker -- a man with his wife.









But what, everybody has to do what they think is best.






- Ready?


Dear Bark, I've been thinking about you all day and I want to talk to you more than ever.



We were so happy back then that it was hard to remember.





Nellie kept saying how beautiful this place is.
I thought she said to cheer Mrs Timmons up, but she kept going after we left, so I guess she really thinks he's cute."



I haven't been myself lately.




But I told Nellie that health comes first.
Oh, Bark, honey, something came up for us to be together.

Perhaps you should wait until your glasses are fixed.
























- Good night then, Mother.
- Good night.












Well, good night, Mother.
Good night, darling.



Yeah, honey, soda's in the medical box.
I'll know in case it gets worse.




- Good night, darling.
- Good night.


- Good night, Mother.
- Good night.



Oh, thank you very much.
Good night.







I'm guessing you haven't been in contact with school kids lately.


But a man doesn't need girls who run after everyone.













He's too old.




When you're 17, and the world is beautiful, the facts are as amusing as dances or parties.




















You don't need me.








Oh, honey.















- What Rhoda promised right now doesn't matter.























It would be nice if your mother were here.












- Good morning, Doctor.
- Good morning, Mr. Payne. Who's sick?

















































I'm too old to play toys with neighbouring teenagers, Cora.






Okay.


































Wouldn't it be better to send him to California?
I think it would be a good idea to send him anywhere.

I always think my dad can't handle these terrible winters, and California would be better.







Very nice.






- Isn't that nice?
- He's good, isn't he?
































Oh, honey.







It's gonna be okay.





Oh, yeah, she said something about an argument, but forget it, darling.






















- What, honey?




- Doesn't matter.












Not for long, for his own health, darling.


I don't want anything more than you kids to see healthy and happy.















I don't mean to hurt you, but I wasn't very happy here.




- Let me finish, darling.



I'm glad it's over.

And one more thing, darling.


Never thought a nursing home was a good place.








It's gonna be the first secret I'm gonna keep from him.


Here's a little secret between us.






























I think I've made a mistake somewhere, even though I've always tried to be a good wife and mother.










See the old couple?
































- That's very nice of you, Mr. Weldon.

















































- Oh, good.









I'm glad you enjoyed it.





Oh, well, I'm better now.








Yes, darling.















Then you have to remember that. Our old lobby.
























Probably for talking a lot about the last hours that were left before my dad's train.


But that doesn't mean, Mr. and Mrs. Cooper, that we're happy to see you less than the previous managers were.
We think it's very nice of you to take care of us, Mr. Norton.





You wouldn't believe me if I told you that on the first Thursday, that we were here for our honeymoon, we started with the Brooklyn Bridge.






















































Yeah, it's important enough.





- Did it go well?



- Yeah, we thought it'd be good.
Beautiful.


Thank you very much.




- Are you okay, Lucy?







- Only when you're happy.






- Oh, that's cute.

Marrying her is my greatest fortune.




I guess I seemed better for her, so she chose me.











There's a lot of nice girls around.
Not as cute as you.



- Bark, you're cute.










" Darling, " he asked with a gentle voice, "say, do you regret your choice?



" My dear, " she said, "a choice has been made, vows have been made, rice has been abandoned.








It's nine o'clock, is everyone happy?



















That's not very good, George.
















Goodbye, dear Lucy.





Bark, maybe that's the sweetest thing you've ever said.


I just want to tell you that every piece of this 50-year-old was beautiful.




























- But it's very important, so listen to this: "Stop the train in open traffic..."
























































- I just thought, if you check... or later, at the border, having tickets is always good.




Little town. 14,000 inhabitants.
Traveling for the first time.
Look at that new passport.





























Remember: catch the big ones, let the little ones run away.















Places are free, aren't you, or do you have other rooms in the first class?




Otherwise, it's only in the morning, by breakfast.

And we wouldn't want to go to bed without thanking you again. Thank you so much and good night!

























Hot food and beautiful women, Mackey.




























Thank you very much!



















Well, darling ladies?
































- Yes. It's always the best.




























Beautiful society!




"From now on, we're important ladies." That's what you said!




















Have a safe journey and a happy arrival.
You will treat the Dams with the utmost attention... and personally help them with their landing tomorrow morning. It's done.







In the morning after we arrive, we'll take care of the girls, as usual?




- Our first duty is to serve the law. - Yes.





















Oh, please pay the driver, okay?

That's what it takes.





















Yeah, it's important! Send me to the hotel detective's room right now.
















- Worse.









We need a suitcase.













Excellent! Only if you let me criticize you, you've got one little mistake. Excellent, Morris!




The real social man with the money... is the one who orders most of the best hotels with meatballs, double.

























Okay.

- I'm so happy.
It can't be any better.
- In that case, it's good!








I need one answer!








Can I have one last criticism?


























You're a great expert, Mr. Colleague.








It's always very important that no one knows who we really are.

















I recognized him at first sight!

























- Thank you very much, Mr Holmes!














I think they need your help.









- If people need our help, I guess we'll go down to them.
- All right.



- Mackey, our first assignment, it's here!







- You don't have to lie to us.








First thing's gonna get messed up!






















It would be best if we were to be quiet and modest, kind and friendly to people.




It's a hoax. It's the biggest naughty thing I've ever seen in my practice. How do we feel about work?





















































This morning at 10:30 this young man entered the World Exposition... from the rest park by pulling out the fence. He didn't have an entry ticket.



This young man examined these four stamps, the famous stamps from the island of Mauritius. The last four remaining copies in the world.




















And you'll get new shoes, too.






Well, I wouldn't say anything anyway. At the end of the day, we're very happy, Mr Holmes.















I had to walk from Germany to find out they were fake. Yeah?























Don't talk about it!
















Do we have a big case?






















- Okay!








Two of my acquaintances were supposed to come with the north express this morning.





































































See, Mackey, how this happens. Big things are getting better. ..sinking about the little ones.






















I'll stay in Iveles tonight. But I have to go to town early tomorrow.


Thank you very much, Doctor.





- Not necessarily the most expensive.




- The guest room is ready.



Good night, ladies!
- Good night!



































Sleep well, my ladies!

Big life started!


We're gonna lead a beautiful life here.






































All right.








- Mr Holmes, what a happy occasion!




- It's no longer necessary.

















There are things worth 2,000 francs that are so small that the greatest detective has to sweat to find them again.



- He wasn't into... expensive art? The rarithettes?
















But when the suitcases were already packed and the car was ready to leave, the professor sat in the chair by the desk.








The joy of stamps is great, then the paralysis of the heart.












When was the last time there was a fire in this fireplace?





































Bravo, my dear.




- Oh, that's how it was... new postage stamps, right?



















You always have to think.




Dear Professor Berry, thank you very much for the timely delivery.


































Okay.




- It's better than the originals from the state's typography.























But Mary Berry and Jane Berry would be better off staying in Middletown.













































































Do you believe that dreams that are dreaming on the first night of a new place come true?












But I'd rather not say anything about it.



"Kiss me, my train robber!" I really feel sorry for you, dear Jane.















Such nice people!












- Nice of you to come visit us.
You're the first guests in our castle.




























Your uncle was a big artist.

This is the beautiful castle and everything you've inherited.



- You don't have to be afraid.





At the age of 20, he won a competition for the best sketches of new 50-franco banknotes.




But for the contest, never again, and no new sketches. He followed the samples of the banknotes available and repeated them accurately.
Even better than the originals.

















I wish I'd told you something nice. Then you could believe me.







Terrace was already ready in my head.
Tomorrow morning they wouldn't be serving oatmeal soup, but a real breakfast. Nine o'clock.
Ah, Proll and Peter's baby. Old acquaintances.























We'd love to, wouldn't we?






























- Then that's good, Mr. Police Counselor!
















Beautiful!
Everybody's gone! - Okay.






- We couldn't have wanted a better identity.

First door to the left!







'Cause I'm going as a good friend. Hmm?

















Good idea.
- Not as good as I thought.









































You old fool!









- A shift that needs to be promoted.
But one little accident is about to break your neck.


































- The most expensive watch in the world, Mackey.












































































Many of them have little personal concerns and great secrets.



























- We still need him.







































These messages to you... were marked with a thumbprint.




And who, Mr. criminal investigation counselor, has failed the work of a large gang of counterfeiters?





































That was the last time.









On one rainy evening... my friend Mackey sat and I, both very depressed, upstairs, on the 7th floor of Shaftsberry Avenue, 311, in our little detective bureau Argus, with four pounds.



With the last money, we bought ourselves another outside sign.









































Come with me! - I've got a new case for you!













We wanted to do what's best.

























Good morning.



Good morning!








For the first time in three days, good weather, and you're a suicide.






We're in the middle of an investigation. We're gonna have to wait.
Sorry, it's such a good day.





But he was old.





























































I've been singing this Golden Fish all morning.






Do you think we should do an all-powerful samurai?
















It's better this way.



She's gonna get a new tenant.








Glad you're my neighbor!

































You're a good man, you bought us five bottles for the party.



















I should've drank less.



Good morning.







































Yeah, okay.
You gonna go now, darling?

Good morning.



















What do we have to carry, master?














Okay, thank you...












































No, thank you.

































































I need to speak to Mr. Mori!



What do you want?























I'll bring you some good news tomorrow, don't worry.


My father's support played an important role.

He'll remember that, and he'll be happy to help me.






Our people are always ready.
Thank you very much.












And you know, when you have to stop, you're a careful player.










And my best wishes.





















































































































No, I gave everything this morning for a shipment of alcohol.

















That's good.


I really need the money.


Don't say no, I need money.



















More like, you need the same medicine as usual.






These tools aren't worth more than old wooden shoes.




















New tube stalks!
Hey, I need a stem...





Truth be told, she needs a new stem.
The old one gets clogged all the time.









Okay... stay with her for a few days.


























Who needs it?













No, I need to meet the groom's father.



























Mr. Mori, I'll be at your house at 8:00 a.m.
Okay?
Eight o'clock in the morning.




Give him my best wishes, sir.
Tomorrow morning at eight o'clock.


































































Here, with your best wishes.

























I'm still calm, 'cause you're not worth my nerves.




Enough beautiful speech, I'm gonna ask you one last time!




I don't need money.





















Good morning.







Good morning, Master.












I don't need money.

Come on, you don't need money.














We need to look at her before I go to the pawn shop.



It's important!















































Good morning!
It's a good day, isn't it?












He's not such a bad man after all!




















Don't you need money?




Who takes first.




You said you didn't need the money!







Whoever wins gets the first one.





You're a good man.
I'll take the first one.















































Yeah, well, she's safe now. Fifty ryos isn't a big price.
























Listen up, I have to go.












Okay, I'll give it back.





















It's gonna be okay.















And as manager of the railway, I have the honour to ask the distinguished wife of the Minister of Roads to name our new locomotive.























- Here's the last one.







But, honey...










Why not? Better than knocking on wheels.
- But darling...




Just take your time, darling.

That's better.








I need help.



- The further, the better.














Who else did he work for, darling?







It's nice of you to set up a man with Willie's intelligence to hook up with cars!






- Yes, darling.





























Maybe it's the local situation. Over the past 12 months, there have been five station managers.
And what happened to the last one?


"Dear sir.





















This gentleman is the new station manager in Bagglezkelly.



















When the first train was let loose, one-eyed Joe came out of the tunnel, raising his hands to the sky.



The next morning, his body was found on the way.

















- Well, thank you very much.
Good night.




























































Your dinner, Jeremiah. Is mine ready?

- The new station manager.















Hey, move over, I need to get out.












Oh, you got a big shot here.
























What if the company comes to check out the tickets sold? What then? You're gonna be in big trouble, aren't you?





































- Good morning.


- I'm Murphy, I need my pigs!































Simple Jane doesn't have less than seven.

























Let's do this. I'm gonna take a little pig, and we're even.

























Send Murphy's pigs away before they cause any more trouble.








He only stops at important stations. There will be an important station in the future.









































- I'm the new station manager.























































Okay, I don't need an answer.





















I'm waiting for a call from Belfast.



























All right, I'll connect you to Mr. Brock.












Oh, now you need your charter flight!











You know, you're gonna lose your last tooth if you're gonna be a fool!



















We have one old car, but I don't think it's going to roll.
For some reason, everything on this station is either too old or it doesn't work.



































- We're gonna have to heat the kitten first.

- Good morning!








- There's more wood in the tender. Okay.










It's pretty clear, you old fool, that's why we're gonna have to move them.

















There can't be two Gladstones. Okay, you're gonna be the car.



















Good morning, gentlemen.

You're the new station manager, I assume?

We're traders from Bagglezkelly, and we need trains!




Last time the train stopped here was Tuesday.











































Yeah, but we need him now.








Our last one, if we don't move this thing. Today's 19th.





































I told you we had to move forward!







You need a special approach to sell tickets. Okay, try it yourself.

























You old frostbite...!




We don't need solutions!




And all you have to do is exchange old tickets for new ones.







Well, that's... down the branch, then the first tunnel to the left.



I need to go to Ballibanion!














Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, We're going to Ballibanion! Balliganion is the most beautiful place in Ireland!

Balliganion is the best place in the world, and you're gonna have to put it on your nose!

Balliganion! I'd rather be in Connemara, the same hole!






- I'd love to!























That's what I need!






- You must have a big family.










- Win or lose. The train should be ready by 6:00 in the morning.


Well, that's too bad.





6:00 in the morning!

Okay.
Good night.

















Good morning, gentlemen!

Good morning.

Good morning. Tickets.
Good morning, sir.

Ah, good morning, sir.










- Don't put it on the shelf, okay?
- Ready?





Oh, yeah, it's very important.















































































There's gonna be a new watch here soon.
Look, we better not argue with him.

















What do you have to do?


- You'll find out soon enough. - We need to put a ferret in there!





















Did they leave this morning or not?



























I don't know what he's doing, but he's the one who left this morning with the band on the train.













Yeah, and this morning, he took my train. And I need an explanation.























Who was the last person to see him?





































It's too late. The old fool's already on the wire.
What old fool?













I've been pulled out of the stations better than this one!

























There's no one on the new branch, but there's one on the old ring.





















- And here's the fork for the old branch.












- I found it first.










































- All right, I...




























- No, old bastard, if we go to the right...
















































He can't take our weight. Better...















All you have to do is crawl through one of these... wings and jump off the ground.










Come on, you first.


























- I'm ready!
- He's ready.











All right, I'm ready.










All right.



































Well, my human shield, we're almost ready.

























- It doesn't matter, it's speed. - Aren't we going to stop?































Yeah, but what's the point if we have one last corner left?



















- Not now, old stump, we're in a tunnel!
- The worst coal I've ever seen.

































































Look here, dear colleague.


There are little dark streets between each step.



Small, dark, crowded cafes.












Big and small, black and white, ageless, unformed, fat, which is scary to touch.
















He smiles at his friends as easily as he kills his enemies, dear señor.










Beautiful, very handsome.










Dear Pepe, you can be proud of him.



















Working with people, I respect and appreciate a good job.








- And I'm not? You're not. You're gonna fuck more than that at all costs.





















































- Tell them to stop. - Okay.



















But he's prettier than Inessa, a gypsy.




Fast work is bad work.
Slow gets better results.
















































































And here, you need reason, and you need to appreciate our information.


We need to find some bait for this.




























He's a bad man, but a good son.
And we're not gonna arrest a good son, we're gonna arrest a bad man.





























Ines in the morning, Ines in the afternoon, Inez in the evening. You're not a woman..... but a diet.









Good thing there's a police.













































Yeah, but she's special. Like a little queen.









20 if there's a good lawyer.












- What did she write in her last letter?


We have to cross the whole of France.















































Honey, get out of here.















I don't need any advice here.
You don't need it?












It's her first trip.




Yeah, I'll walk you out to be calm.






My dear Carlos, you lose for the fifth time.









It's too bad you're being too polite.













- Very good.

Okay.











































You're beautiful, smile.



















- Yes, in the morning.







It's simple. All you need is a good guide.
































































































Need some help?











- That's because I'm sick.






















- First aid to the director.













Especially that little brunette with the diamonds.











































My last refuge is St. Martin's.
























- You don't need help?








You have very beautiful bracelets.
























If I knew better, I'd slap you.

It reminds me of July 14th. I'm a little... Gobelen Street.







- On the terrace, there's a beautiful view.





























It was an unusual boy, calm.



Don't drink that much. You're gonna be sick tomorrow.









Pierrot's calm now.

Couldn't even walk a friend on the last way.




Be patient, and your last day will come.







- No. She was beautiful, I'm sorry...

























It takes a lot of patience to live among them.









Okay. It's Sliman.
























A man like you deserves another, better life.










Then you didn't say, "Good night," I came to say, "Good afternoon."







Okay. But in case you need it, I know where he is.







You're beautiful.






















Nope. I'm not happy and I'm not calm.





First grade.


















Today is a wonderful day, what a beautiful Sunday.
























Your companion is very fond of the exotic of the old city, Kasbah.



















- It's all for a new bird?


- Okay, old eagle, deal.


































Beautiful.















The city of Oran. Okay.




Four first-class seats.








I understand you well, Pepe.




















Okay, Albert. I'll be back in two hours.


- Nine in the morning.














I remember my youth, I look at an old picture like in a mirror.

































I need your trust, I want it back.






































Okay, I'll wait.































































She leaves at 10:00 a.m.















I don't want to. What did I do to you?

Let me go, be a good girl.












The best thing about traveling is going home.
And I was happy here and a little sad to be back.




















Go on, Fanny, darling.









Go on, Fanny, darling.













I'm afraid it's the devil of an old lady.


And so are you, my dear.
I'm happy Phoebe won't be an old maid.




It's on you, Mary, darling.





Oh, my dear, you're shaking.




My dear, did he propose?
















Oh, honey.






Five of them listened to me this week, and then they asked me a stud, but it's lucky I finally got them.

Good luck, ma'am.



















That's sweet.




Phoebe, darling, I wish you great happiness.



































He's been ready for a long time.




But I'm afraid I was too unattractive, my dear.
Honey, honey.



And now they're all big boys.

The wedding dress, my dear.








Oh, that's sweet.
It's beautiful.
You're wearing it, my dear, aren't you?
Old England's Roast Beef
And all the old English roast beef.

















































Those are beautiful words, sir.






Anyway, I think you were the first person to give me that idea.

























I made friends here - two very nice ladies.







You look so calm, Phoebe.


Yes, darling.

















A happy escape.
Miss Phoebe, last look at the garden.





I don't need them.







































William Smith says 15, and he's such a big boy.





Susan, we don't have to let big boys know we're afraid of them.





It's too big.









Miss Susan, I'm happy to find that you've changed so little.




















Most of them are golden children, and this is the last day of the semester.
Good luck.



























Miss Charlotte, you're self-absorbed and stupid, but you're a sweet 18-year-old.


My dear.
He thought I looked old because I was tired.









































It must be in vain to pretend you're particularly good.





Oh, it's gonna be a beautiful year for women, ma'am.



























This needs to be accepted now.






I'm an old friend of both your aunts.










































Come to your senses, my dear, come to your senses.






It's just a new veil, sir.




We're just happy to see you again, sir.





















Well, do you remember little Livvy, Mary?























Auntie, why don't you introduce your old student?








Why don't two old buddies play cribbage?





Beautiful!
























I have to go home.





No, she's worse.
Not bad enough for you to risk your own health.







































Captain Brown came to visit you, my dear.


I'm sorry to find that you're not better.








































You're too old.









Dear Miss Livvy, Luna is so beautiful, will you take a walk and let me show it to you?



I'd love to show it to you.

























They're going to see Miss Livvy, so she better go home immediately.



















I feel bad.










M-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-m-



















She wore this cape and capor for the first ball.





























Oh, forgive us, Phoebe, darling.




They're not paying attention to you, my dear?













You see, I'd like to tell Miss Livvy something very important.



Have a nice day.




I so want to get to know Miss Livvy better.

You remember Captain Brown said he had something important to say to me?







































































But I sincerely hope that these are the last words I will ever turn to this lady.
My love, darling,


Beautiful!









It may include bypass roads, but it's still the best way.






Remember once and for all, I say for the last time:

Good morning, Phoebe, my dear.









Good morning, Susan.
















Stay still, Livvy, my dear.




Good morning, ladies.







If we can make him think she went home, he doesn't need to know anything.






Good morning, Patty.


















And... the old girls have a floating sign just like the women's.






Do it for me because I did you wrong.
Please don't say another word.
Good morning, Patty.




















I'm so happy it's you.
Oh, Phoebe, darling, I wish you happiness.










How are you feeling, dear Miss Livvy?




Is she very bad, sir?




Actually, I think you all should go.














- Good morning, Sergeant.














You were the first to make this, all because you didn't recognize her the first time you came back.








Miss Livvy is much better, sir, and she agreed to come out to see you.



























































































































I'm sure these beautiful ladies are much more worthy of them.








Dear Phoebe Trossel...













My mirror in the baget, who's the most beautiful person in the world?



Alas, she's prettier than you are.

















Find a bigger field in the woods where she can pick wild flowers.












































It's gonna be okay! But I need somewhere to sleep at night.


























That's not good.

















Oh, what little beds!
















- Oh, that's a bad sign.


















































































- Beautiful. Yeah, like an angel.












































Who are you, my dear?




My dear princess! We're... uh...


It's an honor!



















She's an old witch.




















The soup isn't quite ready yet.
























Worse than I thought.


















Don't listen to that grumpy old man.
















Little, funny, water people.










My mirror in the baget, who's the most beautiful person in the world?
Behind the seven green hills, behind the seven forests, in the house of seven gnomes now lives Snow White. She's prettier.



Snow is still alive, and it's the most beautiful.





Okay, it's time to turn from pretty to scary. Turn my king into a goddamn old woman.
I want to be an old-fashioned mummy...

To make my voice grow old... the voice of an old sorcerer, ha-ha-ha!





























She could only think of a beautiful prince.

- Was he strong and handsome?
- Big and tall?






That day will come, and we will be happy, I know it..."


















Well, what's up, darling?

Good night, princess!





















I'll be more beautiful on Earth!




The first kiss of love?





And don't forget, my dear:
The old queen of tricks, and she's a witch.












Okay!
But this is the last time.







...from an old helpless old lady!


Are you here alone, my dear?

And the little men, they're not here?






Yes. Taste it, bite it off, my dear!










































Take the apple, darling, and make your wish.






Now I'm gonna be the most beautiful!



















And how did our dear Saxons take the news, Sir Guy?



- Is there a better moment than that, Sir Guy?
My dear brother had no idea that he could be captured and that power over England would be transferred to my caring hands.






























































In all the woods, you won't find a hunter better than me.






Good food, good company, beautiful lady society that flatters us, huh, Lady Marianne?



- Do I need to pay attention to him?







- Maybe if I get to know him better. - Sure.

Any further objections to the new duty for our Saxon friends?






















He's the best archer in England, and my brave county sheriff is afraid of him!










With the best wishes of your brother, King Richard, may God bless him!









Sit down, sit down, darling.



It doesn't matter at all.



Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to introduce Sir Robin of Locksley.













Such recklessness must have a good appetite.



You think the duties are too high.


















































































After a beautiful sleep in the woods?













- Only someone better than me.













If you want a lesson, you get to the right person!








- Little John.




- Then I'm glad I ran into you.

































And he can provide shelter and food to a group of good, determined men, good archers, swordsmen and fighters.
If you want to stand up for our people, I need you.





























- He needs to be stopped!
















- He's what we need.


























And since we're in the woods recently, we need someone to perform the baptism ceremony.








I'm fine here.





















Come with me, and I promise you the best deer pie, and the biggest one, you've never eaten that!






























Are you ready?


All set?





















- Okay, Little John.



- Are you ready?























Not very impressive for the company of such a beautiful lady.




























- They're just happy! - Happy?
















































- Okay.




Pretty nasty sight for beautiful eyes like yours.
















































You better go before I change my mind.
We'd better go.


Little John.






- Every last penny.































He's the best shooter in the North.
And he's gonna want to be the best in England.







- Okay.



Even if he appeared as a priest, poor or beggar, what could hide the best shooter in England?










No, my dear, it's in case the Saxons make a mess.









- It'd be worse if you were hanged.










They're all beautiful shooters.























Very good!

























You will receive the award from the hand of the beautiful Lady Marianne Fitzwalter.


It's an honor to get it out of the hands of such a beautiful lady.

- This is my last chance.
- Her verdict is always the last.

Good idea.














































Maybe Little John's right.







































It was stupid of me to think you liked him.

































What do you want?








And after I heard about the creeps, I'm really glad I came here.

Now you need to leave immediately!


Of course I can't play better than this lovely lady.










You need to leave now.




It's not very nice of you to give me away to my enemies.
There's a fat old guard captain on crooked feet.





























- You're the most beautiful.

Please, my dear, this is where you put yourself in danger every minute.




- Robin, darling!






No, listen, darling.









All right, go away, sweetheart.
- Goodbye, darling.




- Yeah, we've come a long way.



Luton had a nice sitting yard.

































We're not important enough to be interested in us.





The road is so dangerous, you'll be safer here.







Good night!

Master, are the beds ready?















It's in the spirit of my dear brother!





- England will need a new king.
















- Now. How many people do you need?


Good for my friends.
















You're very sweet, but you're not so smart.



And you decided that Richard needed to be warned.











Take Lady Marianne to the big hall.
















You're absolutely right, my dear.










Robin's gonna take care of her, it's okay.









- Have you come a long way today?
- Too big to waste time.

If it weighs more than it needs, I'll share it with those who need it.






Best friend ever.










- I hope it's not good.
























Guys, we need to find the king!

Little John, take the men and search the county.




You don't have to look for Richard, Robin.
- He's in the safest, best hands of England.















If we want to save her and your throne, we have to act immediately!












And I hope the Norman Sword equals you to the right size!









Everything is ready for the ceremony, Your Majesty.







































And I hope that under my rule... the Normans and the Saxons will live together as one big English family.













My first order, Count, is to marry Lady Marianne.










If he taught poetry from the Bible for Sunday school, he would be a good boy.





What kind of log do you want, this or this?

But maybe it's better than that!

















































It's the Big Missouri. Going from St. Louis to New Orleans.











































Don't cry, Sydney, darling.


Come on, honey.


Honey, I got something for you.







Mom says the new judge.
And this is their stupid little girl.






























We are honoured by the presence of such a guest.









I'm ready to get a Bible.

Okay!
Very good.







Here's the right number of tickets.













Name the first two.



So the first two apostles were called?








































































Okay, not now.






















That's so sweet.














Okay, that's my most precious treasure.










When the devil comes after him, you should throw a cat behind him and yell, "The devil behind the dead, the cat behind the devil, the cat behind the cat.











Okay. I'm going fishing now.























Better the devil than him.





















































































I've got potato salad here, big chocolate pie and salts.






















Okay, be a hermit.














Well, they found Garper's kid's shoes, you old bastard!




Aren't you happy?



If she's so sick right now, maybe I should go home.























What's good about being a pirate is nobody makes you wash your feet.




Okay, well, we don't wake up from their screaming in the morning.
My mom didn't scream, but she sang beautifully this morning.










"And even though sometimes they prank, "boys are boys, "they will remain the most precious treasure for us."





Now, Sydney, don't say a word against our sweet Tom... now that he's gone.

Okay, Aunt Polly.

And the last thing I heard from him was the words of impertinence.

Aunt Polly, maybe you should lie down.


Get some rest, sweet Polly.
Good night.
Good night, Aunt Polly.
Good night.



Please let them be found so I can look into Tom's cute face for the last time.











And you better hide.
Friends, we are here to honor the memory of the three beautiful boys who left us at the dawn of their youth.




I'm not gonna talk about his kindness to small and large... or his old age in domestic work.
It's enough to say, as in the latest edition of the St. Louis edition:



And last of all, my friends, but who we won't forget, the one we were supposed to love is poor, but the persistent child of nature is Huckleberry Finn.

How noblely he strived for the better to become a useful member of society.

































































It's still in my old jacket pocket.












I've never done anything wrong.


















Your Honor, please postpone the meeting until tomorrow morning.








You're so kind to me, better than anyone else in this town.
I'm telling you how many boys have shown me where fish bites better, and they've been nice to everyone, and now they've forgotten me when I'm in trouble.


The first comfort to a man in such trouble is to see the faces of his friends.


Little pens.















Look, we need to take a dead cat and come with her at midnight at the cemetery where some sinner was buried.











































All right.



Yes. We'd better get back.















































Then who saw him last?










We don't need the lost ones yet.

We need to look through all the aisles.











































































































New, just came out.















- Playing big?












































- What's new?




























I met the right people.















Very good.








- Nice to meet you, Jerry.
What's new?

I'm so glad!














- Nice to meet you.



























Okay. Tell them I'm on my way.

Okay, Father.






- No, it's for the big guys.









- It's good to have you home.























Sister, I just need a room.


- It's okay, I've seen worse.










- Need a recommendation?
















What's new?



I want Jim Frasier.


















- What's new? What do you say?









































Look, Frasier, all I need is your kindness.











Nice to meet you.



























































































































































Come on, put it down.
- Okay, okay.





















- But good.
Very good.



- What's new?







- Okay.


Hey, Rock, looks like you and your dad are old buddies.
































































































Ready?

































Okay, Rocky.































































































































- It's all right, he's ready.
- Okay.






























Oh, what important birds, very important.











Tell Kiper I'll come in the morning.










Rocky's gonna be in El Toro in the morning.








- And without tricks, it's important to me.





Good morning.
































Okay.




I have a better idea.



I need Buckley.











































































- Nope. - Okay.







































































Do you understand? - Sure, okay, Rocky.


Okay, Soapy.







- Okay.
















































What's wrong with that?

Jerry, I've been answering questions all morning.




- Well, it's a good thing it's over.




Looks like it's a big day.















- I'll find you. - Okay.












And in the morning, everything was in the socks.






















































You had a bad time, and you decided it was forever.
It's been written that crime is bad.





- Very old. - Go on, put it on.









Okay, I hope I get into my old dress.






















Are you really ready to be serious?







Okay.








...I need an account and access to the reports so I don't cheat.
- Yes. - Okay.













It's good to have one friend here.



I thought it was important, and I brought it to you.
Okay, thanks.



If I knew about it this morning, I'd save some money.






















And you'd better get some of them instead of him.








Okay, Rocky.











































Okay, I'll do it.








Okay, Father Connolly, I'm with you.














He's not bad at all, you know that.
And whatever they do to him, whatever he becomes, bad or good,..

















...proves all the cynics and skeptics today that society cares and is prepared to change the terrible circumstances I have already mentioned.












The new Supreme Court is sitting tomorrow, and it has to answer these questions.




It was the last chance.





Sullivan, even if he's your old friend...









- I need results.































- Well, no. You had your last chance.




















I'm Connolly's father, old friend Rocky.



































- Hold your fire! But be ready.























































- What's new?












































- But that's what it takes.






You're gonna take away the last thing I'm gonna take from me?


- Nice request...
















Are you ready?







'Cause it's boring to drown the last mile.




She'll be the last thing you see.




















































Let's pray for a guy who ran worse than me.
Good morning, Miss Svalow.















That's the bone we need to finish the brontosaur.











Two such important events in one day!















































I can't even tell you, Mr. Peabody... how important this donation is to the museum and to me personally.
















Okay.











Anyway, I forgive you because I took a good shot.




- I just set the ball for the first hit.

You need to be over there.

























The most important lawyer in New York is waiting for me at the front aisle.






























I need a place.



- Okay. - Are you okay?







It's an old wreck anyway.


































No, I'd rather...




I'd rather hold on to her.














- Okay!


















We need to practice.





I came first.
















































My dear young lady, I'm nothing at all... but what they call the last ball...




























There she is. Thank you very much.










- Let me, darling.


Okay.










































































And I hope you realize that you've made fun of yourself.








There's nowhere closer. Ready?







It's very important for me to meet this man to explain everything... although what I'm gonna tell him...





























Because if we don't, in the last hour we drove past this house six times.









I feel like I'm better off.

- I don't think we need to do this.



















Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.












It's not that I don't like you... 'cause at some quiet moments, I was kind of weirdly attracted to you... but there were no such moments.






Good night.




































I said, "Good morning, David." Don't you need a leopard?

The thing is, I don't need one either, but I have one.




























































"Dear Susan, I'm sending you Baby." Baby, it's him.











It's kind of stupid that he likes such an old tune.
















































Good morning.
- Good morning, Professor.
- Good morning.






Okay.



















All I want is to take this leopard, get on the nearest train to town... and forget everything that's happened in the last 24 hours.





You just had a bad day, that's all.


















Yeah, very expensive feathers.








































I'd love to go to the circus... but you better leave your tickets, 'cause I'm busy tonight.




Oh, good.






























- I'm happy we finally got here.












I have to go to New York.


















I need to get to New York to get married.













I don't need any suggestions.



















It's just an old bone.
Yeah, it's just an old bone.

Okay.






























- I need some clothes.












Oh, that little, vain, spoiled, windy...


"It's gonna be okay."



























I've never been so happy.
It's so lovely to see you and dear George here.









He writes that David is an old friend of his.



























Last one, sir.






















































I needed them for the museum.






There's only one thing to do.
And it's important to me and my job.





















































- Sweet George.







David needs him.
























David and Susan need this bone.
It's a creepy old bone, thousands of years old.

















Isn't he a strong little man?










George, it was great, but we need to focus again.





















- Right, we need a plow.
















I don't need another lunatic in the family, I've had enough.












Very big.




















What, Alice, darling?



































- You're too big to swing on doors.















It was this morning, anyway.









- Don't.




















Big hunting, for example.













































Personally, I use a large-caliber cut Mauzer.


I need to be patient.

























































- Okay.





Well, that's better.










Okay. But you'll regret it.






















































In that case, you understand the importance of rest.


















Thank you very much.








































- What's it take to catch a leopard?
- Is it big?






































The palms play an important role in creating resonance and increasing sound.
Why are you putting your thumbs together?
We need to connect the tips of the thumbs like this.

























No, I think it's a good idea to continue our walk.











Let me go first.
Wouldn't it be better if I went first?





































- Okay.




If that's what you need, you could go to the other side.





















Maybe she'll give you the million I need for the museum.
If you were planning this, you were able to destroy all my hopes in the best possible way.



You tell everyone the first thing that comes to your mind... and you don't tell me.


















- The new trainer decided to take a look at him.


You think three minutes alone with this cat could have ended up good?














You sure you don't want my jacket?











































Come on, honey.
























































































David, you look a lot prettier without them.






















Okay, I know enough to go where I don't want to go.













Everything I do with my best intentions... turns out bad.


Okay.

- Are you sure you need me?























I have to pick him up, and to do that, I have to sing.




- Okay.


You better get downstairs, Fritz.
- Sing if you want, darling.









































































































































You're a good officer.








































- What does she want?
- She needs her niece.








I'm Mrs Carlton Random, and I need my niece.


























This old destroyer screams that she's Mrs. Random.




Good night.










The first one who picks up... I'm gonna put him in solitary.

I need absolute silence.




















You'd better keep talking.






























Okay, open up.





















You like ladies, don't you, honey?















































That's what I need.







































































- Okay.

























- We need help.































Poor little Susan.





































I have nothing to say, except that I'm glad... that before we got married, you showed yourself in the true light.











Honey, look!

Thank you very much.























I was so happy when I found this bone this morning.








I just realized it was the best day of my life.



- That's why it was so good.

That's so beautiful.






That's great, 'cause I love you, too.






















You don't have to talk about it, you have to do it.
























Number one?














































































































Everyone knows I'm insomnia, and everyone thinks it's necessary to ask me how I slept.

- Good morning, Lemel. - Hey.





Bad.




















Good morning, gentlemen.



- Good morning. - Hello.












Some of them are bad and some of them are good. Like everywhere.
Yeah, but this one's probably bad.
Bad or good, we'll fight foreigners.




















Believe me, Mr. Lemel. Screaming is a bad way to raise children.
If I start yelling in your ears too to teach you good manners, just like that...

















































That's all I need.

I need you to be loved.



























































































I thought you'd be happy to step away from the program a little bit.
























I repeat, in order to draw, you have to be observant.























































But sometimes I'm really ready to fall apart.











Okay.








All right, Mr. Director.









































Good night.
Good night.

- Good night.





- Good night.
You didn't have to come.





You're a stalker. Bad.









































That's a good thing about a lotto.





























We'd better get back to the dortoire.























Do you need something?

Every morning he asks.






















































Now everyone needs to calm down and fall asleep.





Go to bed.
All right, Mr. Director.











































































































And Michelangelo, and Robinson Cruz, and du Geskelin, and Philip Beautiful.

Philip Beautiful.





Beautiful.

























Okay.










































































Okay.

























He wrote a novel. He didn't have anything more expensive.



























Do you need proof?























Okay.





Lemel said he was like Philip the Beautiful.

You know who Philip Beautiful was?





















Philip Beautiful.



"Shish Capon, the prisoner of the counterfeiters, locked in an old Mexican mill, suddenly turned to the moon... and the moon said to him, "Shish Capon..."
























Good thing the kid's here.

I've been waiting all day for a minute to read a new chapter.





"The poor Sorga was locked up in an old Mexican mill, damp.




































You're too small. Go to bed.































- We need a strategy.



The first dortoire, the younger ones, you're in reserve.









- I need a volunteer.





- Okay.

















What do you want?




















































































- Good news.























I'd love to.









In a decent Vienna society, they had not yet danced waltz, kissed their wives in public, or listened to new ideas. But it was 1845 that Vienna met Johann Strauss' immortal melody.
























What are you doing? Why don't you tell me what you're doing here when you're working?












Maybe they'll take you back. But I'm glad I got fired.





















But first of all, goulash.

I love it, but a good goulash...

























- You know that. - I'm ready to kiss you.



Hans Puffelfinger, he's the best fagotist in Vienna and he's out of work right now.







You have a good son, Mrs Strauss. I warned him.









We don't need money, we need music.



And I'm Fritz Schiller, the first tenor of the imperial opera. And I say the concert goes on.


















Thanks to Carla Donner, in the palace of Count Hogenfried, artists are always welcome and welcome in all their clothes.


























Schmidt, Rudolph Schmidt. Good day, Rudolph, good day.

















That's sweet.





















Today I present to you a new song by young composer Mr. Johann Strauss.






There's a new piano here from Munich.








Aren't you happy to be alone with me?





When you last sang Norma, I thought you were the only one in the room,






Honey, you must be terribly tired.






Bohemian again, darling.




Very good, 50 guilders. Tony, I'm ashamed of you.
At least a hundred. Okay, honey, a hundred.
That's better.









I'm ready to fall through the ground with shame.

I'm a lucky blind man.





Now I'm really ready to fall through the ground.


And without the cake, what eloquence? No, thanks, I just need a little bite.




My dear wife...
My new mom and dad, dear colleagues.




















It's not a big one, but it's a moderate one.
















But I have a lot of overhead.





- A thousand? Okay.







The crowns fell in love with Strauss' waltz and began to listen to new ideas.














































































Oh, and it was a beautiful picture.

It's only 6:00 in the morning.
You have a long, beautiful day ahead of you.










- Please. - Thank you. Beautiful hat, Mrs Strauss.

I say, beautiful hat.









What a beautiful waltz. What's it called?
































Kinsel, is he the new emperor?


Come on in, guys. Good morning, Mrs Strauss.


The happiest day of my life. Paulie, I'm very busy.













Okay, I won't bother you again.





















If you want to spend the night... outside the house, you have the right to do as you see fit.










All right, let's go. It's better for both of us. Forget about Vienna at all.



We have a lovely new house, friends.




























- Is my march ready? - Nope. Nope.
'Cause you wrote a new thing.



















I have great news.





Or aren't you happy? Of course, madam, of course.















I don't like to grunt, but don't you want to go to the theater?
I'm much better and quieter here with you.





























Madame, you don't have to lie to yourself if you don't want to lose him.


You haven't told me anything new.



I know he's suffering just as much as I do.






I thought he needed me.






















Honey, there's nothing to be afraid of.








Paulie, honey, if you don't want to go to the opera, stay home.
I'm supposed to be at the play. I'll play a better role than she does.
I'll be the star of Shani's first opera.


















Show me you don't need it. Tell him he's free.




His happiness with you means more to me than his love.

























You needed a husband worthy of you.
No, I was happy, but it's all over sometime.








I'll do my best. Good night. Good night.



He leaves everything behind for the last minute.



You are the happiest woman in Vienna.


Good night. Good day, Mrs Strauss.























In that case, vanity is the most beautiful thing in life.










See, honey, what a reputation you have.





















Thank you very much!
Good morning, darling!









No, today's the day.



Good morning, goliath!






I have an important meeting at 4:00 at Burke's company!
Hold my fists, sweetie, for old Burkes to sign.

It's gonna be great.









Married for two years... and as young and beautiful as the day Ken took you to the bedroom.
Can you imagine today is the anniversary of my last divorce?



Here, darling, as the doctor said.

























It's probably important...


- Don't get lost, Coco. - Yeah, honey.












- That's a great idea, isn't it?



At least you've had two happy years.

Oh, you shouldn't... not at your age, darling.




I'm not gonna act like some suspicious old wives who always get involved in their husbands' affairs and keep them out of their sight.




"A reckless night" is very good and expensive.














Oh, my little wife!














Only tomorrow morning.








I'm sorry, Jane, but I asked you to wait till morning.
Don't worry, darling.


But you're the cutest bastard.



I'm glad you're not angry.
It's better to get it back.
Go to bed if you need to get up early.









Things aren't good.
You gotta work, raise your income!
Oh, you're so beautiful!

- Good night!
- Good morning, madam.
- Good morning, Melbourne.



- It's beautiful, too.






Hey, Jane, honey!
- How are you, sweetheart?





Jane, darling, tell me what happened.









I tried, and it got worse.






- What good is that?



Tell me, are you in a relationship with your last husband?



Beautiful.



















































We need an experienced secretary to work here. I'm afraid that...















































If things are so bad that you went to work, you can cut my salary.
Melbourne, you're very nice.















- Hey, honey!
- Hello, darling!


Yes. Drinked a cocktail with an old friend and client.


- I wanted to tell you, darling...




I can always settle in on the couch with a good book.










- Good perfume.


















- Oh, I'm sorry, darling.



When do we have to see each other?

For the walls, I recommend ready concrete blocks, flat and special.




I guess I better send a letter, don't you think?
















I'd better see if the lights are ready.










Okay, but I don't want to inspire you.





- Good morning, boys.
- Good morning, Miss Blake!













Thank you very much!















- But it's a good story.



You made a big mistake when you went to lunch with me.


If you call me, I'll be the first to come to the rescue.




















Your lips are beautiful when they say no.






Oh, great.








My first husband was a working scene.



Remember the big palm tree in the second act?



You're ready.
Hey, honey, that man's here again!










- Hello, darling!













- Not very well.












- No, honey.


- Good morning, Joyce.
- Good morning, Jane.








That you're a good girl of normal appearance, but you know what you're doing... and so am I.













- Good morning, Jane.
- Good morning.






She's very nice.


Mrs. Dexter is a beautiful woman, but...







- Good confession.





- Shouldn't we take the letter?








































It's beautiful!

















We need to send the mail.




Well, okay.



- Hello, darling!


- It's good to see you.


Always ready to help the lady in a difficult situation.


- Thank you, darling.








- Maybe it's my lucky day.








Thank you, darling.

- Okay.


Okay. Three o'clock, and not a minute later!








Honey, where are you?











Maybe it's not that bad.









Well, honey, what were you waiting for out of the pawn shop?















Honey, it's not worth the trouble.


Honey, she's not that bad.




I was just hoping there'd be something beautiful out there that I could wear tonight when we went out.
Nothing, darling.





















Merry Christmas!





- Okay.








I need to run some background checks.








Beautiful.
















She's nice and calm.


- Okay!











- Okay.














I've already been invited, and it's very important to me.

Tell me you have work to do.



- Anything important in your personal life?






















There's a big field for research here.


Is my new hat here?










"A very important business meeting."



It was very important.


If you're happy, there's nothing better.
If you're unhappy, there's nothing worse.














- Okay, if you can handle it.




I want you to meet the most beautiful, most charming secretary in the world, Miss Jane Blake.






No, no. With the most competent, the most beautiful...
Two of the most charming and beautiful secretaries in the world.

























Don't be an old jerk, Ken!




Beautiful girl.

They're so beautiful.







Honey, what did you tell me the other day?


Very nice, isn't it, Barney?


















He asked me to come, and the good secretary always listens to the boss.








It's a wonderful situation, my wife and I have to put up with this old...
















- What a beautiful cape, Kitty.
- Isn't it good?









Just a little joke.



I'm afraid I need to apologize, Barney.








I need to powder my nose.















Yeah, that's a good idea.
Barney has your first job?
- Yes. - Tell me, is he good?



Hello, darling.


















Okay.






- Okay!














- It's beautiful!

- Very nice. Ken, you look very tired.








- Oh, what a beautiful room!

















But the view is much better from my... studio.





















- Do you need to worry now?

































Make an important view.





Oh, honey!
Nice party you're having.







Yes, it is, darling.





Isn't that right, darling?


So, Barney, are you ready to sign the contract?

Beautiful.

But these prices are 20% higher than Mallory's new prices.


Ken, old man, it wasn't easy to convince you to sign this contract, but I'm glad it did.

You know, I'm always happy to help out a friend.

- I was very happy.






Okay. I'll send them tomorrow morning.
It's very nice of you to come, Miss Freser.

















We've barely escaped danger and earned a good rest.


What a lovely apartment.

















There's something we need to do.






















Well, I'm not very old.



















- Good night.
- Good night.


Good night!


















- Good night.
But you have to believe me, darling.
You're the only one I need.


- Oh, Kitty, it's just an old watermelon scrap.
How can you be jealous of an old slice of watermelon?






And you better go to bed before Kitty catches you.
I'll think about it and I'll tell you in the morning.
Good night.


Old watermelon scrap, huh?
Ken, darling.

Honey, I thought about it... and I thought we shouldn't wait for breakfast.




Honey, I'm serious!


Jane, this is the last drop.


Honey, I only came here to apologize.



















Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,









There's a big deep wound.

There you go. Are you feeling better?









Saloon "Last Chance"

That's good.
The couple in this game are as good as the ace.





































Last delivery.






































- Nice work, sweetheart!



































No, Wash, I don't want you with my banjo.







I think you'd better buy me a drink.
- I know what's best for me.








I'm making the best coffee in Bottleke.



I think you should buy a new sheriff if you can find him.






- New Orleans wouldn't enrich us.









Guys, an important announcement by our mayor, the esteemed Hirom Jay Slade.



"Little Joe, little Joe!"
- Cheers to the new sheriff! - Yay!



- For you, you're our new sheriff.











To our new sheriff, Washington Dimsdale!







































They say Stubbs' forehead is now on display at the most beautiful tombstone in Greenlow Cemetery.


I'm not bragging, I'm really good.






































It's my wife's first husband's name, he's dead.

Okay, Callohan, what do you think?







Okay.


























- Nice to meet you, Mr. Destrie.













You still need rooms, let's go.



He needs something stronger.



















































I'm glad you agree.


















Guys, I think the deputy knows what's best for him.










I don't need him, Mrs. Callohan, I need his money and his pants.
































Okay, okay, I'm leaving.

Nice to meet you.





- Is it that bad?



I told Mrs. Callohan you didn't need a room.








- Yeah? Believed the last time I saw you.










They needed someone who wouldn't ask questions.










You go home and I'll be a local drunk again. - It's best for everyone.

My father used old-fashioned measures, and I use new ones.






Okay.







- Okay, Mom.



- It's a good store, isn't it, Tom?












He said, "Marks are good for sticking to something..."







- Looks like rabbits, big family.






















- Yes. - Okay.

Okay.

















I haven't seen anything like it since last night when there were green snakes and pink buffalo around.

Okay, Wash, talk.










It's as big as you.



















- You're gonna be okay.









- I don't need papers.


- I slammed a big bee.
































































- I came here to get a job, and I think I'd better follow my mind.











- Okay.














You'd better get out of town.


I think there's a very nice face hidden under the paint.






A new device to remove the glitter from the nose.



- What a nice dress!
You should see an umbrella for him, a very small one.




I don't know much about him, but he's very nice and different from the rest of the men.






































































I think I'd better stay here.
















I'm a real mole, I'm gonna be the best tracker.



What do you need to find?


- Why do you need the body of Sheriff Keo?



Of course, two underdogs are better than one!





















- Why not? That's better, answer straight.












He didn't have time for any more, he was in a hurry.









Then it's better to sit here and wait for the corpse to find us.













But you better think about it yourself.







































- Very nice!














But if we knew where it was, that would be a good condition.




It's something to celebrate with wine, and it's the best.

How nice of Mr. Kent.









Kent reminds me of a friend from Kansas who's a big wine fan.
When he arrived in the city with a large bush, he immediately went to the nearest saloon.












































Yeah, good job.




I guess I'd better call you judge now.























- Yeah, bad, bad.





















































- What do you want? I brought two and a half thousand dollars from Mr. Tindell.




- We need to sign.











Too bad he doesn't want cheese.






















Yeah, you better take care of me, that's the law.


















I think this old city will calm down and become very peaceful.





Mr. Destry, Miss French is calling you right now, says it's important.
Okay.




- Good to see you. - I was told it was important.













I'm going back to New Orleans.







That's very nice of you.

I'd better get back to work.
Goodbye, Frenchy.
Were you in New Orleans, Tom?

It's very beautiful at this time.









Okay, talk.













- I hope it's a good story.













- Okay.



















































And one morning he met an Indian tribe and he had one knife on him.









No, it's better to spend a hundred years in the mines!
Here! The old regime is over, new times have begun!

























Jackson Big Nose was buried in a cemetery yesterday.





























Take a big sip.

























































General Miles says you're the best scout in the army.




There's no need for others.
















- Okay.





























- Okay, Pete.




But no one can be good enough for Bella Union.











Go on, my dear.




















- Remember when you sang "The Old Kent Road" for me?









- Your best three cards.









What do you want?





































- Come on, move it. - I don't need a duel with a handkerchief and any other fight with you, Doc.
- You don't need it?
Okay, maybe it'll make you change your mind.















- I'd love to.


















Pablo's a good boy.





- Oh, that's beautiful.







- Thank you, I'm happy to be here.











- Nice gun.











Earp's a great guy.



He may be good for you, but not for me.


Is that a new dress?





- Well, you're so sweet.
















And how do you feel about a cozy corner and a bottle of good cold wine?























- I thought it was the best way out.
- Perhaps the best for you.












































- Doc, it's okay.


- Jerry, honey, thank you.

There's a dilijan who leaves in the morning.
































I'll be ready in a minute.
The big crowd gathered at Bella Union?











Um, okay, I'm gonna be funny.



Ladies and gentlemen, we have a big surprise for you tonight.

There's no need to tell you how good he is.










Sunday morning, nine o'clock,
Dan McGinty, when he woke up from sleep, washed himself in his best suit, dressed himself, went out for a walk and looked at the wall.



And then McGinty, an old crook and a fool, decided to cheat his best friend.





And in the best costume I've ever had to wear.

















































Mr. Foy, it's good to see you alive.





- Keep drinking and you'll be dead by morning. - Yeah?

























I shouldn't have done that.





















I need to talk to you.
- Okay, I'll be right out.






- Doc needs you and can't leave.
- Okay, but it's not about me.


















- Okay, what am I gonna do?














Good night, ma'am.
- Good night.
- Jerry, we need to talk.








































And there's a lot of silver. - I'm aware of it.





- Okay.
- Dilijans leaves at 6:00 in the morning.




- Yeah, it's a good investment.




- Okay.


- Do you need valuable information?



















- Bill, are you ready?

























- Girls, do you want Doc Holliday?






























































































- Okay, Doc, just for you.










- Sorry, honey.



- Almost like old times.


You know, John, you were my first patient.

















You'd better go.








































- There was a line from the first act that reminds me of something:




















You guys want Carter's body? You'll find him on the other side of the road.
- You don't think that's the last time you heard about this, do you? - Yes.













- Don't.










- He'll be back by morning.






- Uh, you, you're needed there.
Little Pablo just got shot.






































- Boil more water.



- Okay, Doc.



















- And now everyone's gone back and released most of the room.







Okay, Doc.




Wash your wrist well.







New stitch.




- He's got a chance, a good chance.





- I'm so happy, you know?

You need to rest now.


- It's better to give life than to take it, isn't it? - Yes.




















You and your friends should come out and give up peacefully.










- Dilijans is ready to leave.

















































First Brent, then me, then Brent again.























You're acting worse than any black girl from the plantations.
















































I want to see you happy.
You won't be happy with him.





I don't want her.




























It's okay, Pork.








Good night, Mr. Wilkerson.





He's the best manager in the county.




Scarlett's dress is prettier than mine!






You look tired, darling.



















You eat every last bite.


















Ashley likes girls with good appetite.




Why do you have to look like a fool to catch your husband?













- Thank you very much, India.







Good morning, girls.

Good morning, Scarlett.
India Wilkes, what a beautiful dress!

Good morning, Miss Scarlett.

Good to see you, Miss Scarlett.

Scarlett, darling!




I hope you're happy to hear that.






It's so good to see you again.






No one better than Ashley can entertain a girl.




























You don't think I'm gonna find a better boyfriend than this kid?







- Okay, Scarlett.
- Of course, darling.
I can't decide which one of you is prettier.











Honey, he's not welcome anywhere.








Very happy.





It's a whole world, beautiful and grateful.





Is it better than at the table?























































It could be important to a lot of gentlemen.




















He's one of the best shooters in the country, and he's proved it on several occasions.




























































































You're the most charming and beautiful girl in the world.















Excuse me, darling?
Honey!




Yesterday at our wedding, I thought of you I was hoping yours would be just as beautiful.



Don't cry, darling.





































Savannah would be better.
















A new triumph for our noble warriors!






Captain, it's so good to see you again.

How nice of you to remember me, Mrs. Wilkes.
















It was a beautiful gesture.





- I need your consent to something very shocking.















































It's worse.



I'm ready to dance with Lincoln!





I need more from you than flirting.
What do you want?




That's sweet.









I haven't had anything new in a while!













































In a small town in Pennsylvania, in Gettysberg.
















Don't, darling.





Now he doesn't need them.








- I'm glad for Mrs. Wilkes.


















Oh, my dear, how long have I waited!
Melanie, my dear wife!

Scarlett, darling.











Even if you're the last rooster in Atlanta.








But we're not gonna drink it all at once, because it's the last one.
Thank you, darling.


I'm glad you liked him.









Good night, darling.
Good night, Scarlett.





She's so sick, Mr. Wilkes didn't tell her to come down.



Okay.

Scarlett, how beautiful!




I'm ready to do anything for you.






It's bad luck.




















You're so kind, so strong and so beautiful.
Beautiful not only your face, but you.







































But then they decided they didn't need a sister like that.


And the money turned out to be bad!







It's good money, even though it's mine.




But they're not good Christians like you.

































































Big Sam!



It's so good to see you.







But Mommy said it needed confederations.




Goodbye, Big Sam.




















































She needs me.





Melanie needs you.















- I can do everything. - Okay.











































Scarlett, darling.




Is it so bad that you're talking about death?












































I need every pair of hands.




























































- Who do you want?

















It's better than any doctor.














Beautiful weather.

























Okay, okay.



Now blow your nose like a good girl.








It's gonna be okay, Mellie.




































It's better if you don't see it.


You'll tell your grandchildren how the Old South disappeared overnight.





It's a good thing you're not in the army.







Maybe it's for the best.



It's not us, it's you, darling.









Last try after them.






Why do you leave when it's over and you're so needed?








































I'd love to see you torn to pieces.




















We don't need a cow, Miss Scarlett.


We need milk for the baby, and we don't know what's waiting for us at home.


Move it, you old gag!




It's okay!












Honey!






They were really bad, but they're getting better now.





Miss Scarlett, darling.














There's nothing, honey.



They took them first.















Who needs them now?








































































I'm glad you killed him.













Still, he needs to be buried.
































































You have a good baby.







































I'm so glad.












































































The Mexican army needs officers.
We'd be happy.




























Please, darling.












- Okay, I'll tell you.
I love your courage and stubbornness so much that I almost forgot my wife, who's the best.













Did you remember your old manager?

















































Come on, Mommy, find our old racks.

- You're gonna make me a new dress.










I've known you since the first diaper.


Too good for me, Major.

You'd be more successful than Grant, with less loss.


















My dear sister!
It's okay.




I'll wait for the best time.





They faked a business on me, even though they just want my money.




I'm glad you came.






I'm fine.











And you're joking when I'm ready to cry.


















What do you want?

I need $300 to pay for Tara.

It can't be worse.



- I don't need them.












I'm gonna fight to the last breath.




So, darling, you shouldn't have humiliated yourself.



You knew what I needed.







































It's good to see the old people.










I hope for the best.









Yeah, but it takes money, Miss Scarlett, and I'm thinking of buying a house.























She must be tired of waiting, afraid of being an old maid...







































If it wasn't for Scarlett, I would have died in Atlanta, and maybe there wouldn't have been our little Bo.

My dear.
Okay, Melanie.



Here are the new workers for the sawmill, Mrs. Kennedy.
The best thing in Georgia's prisons.




Okay, so you're a ten.




Start in the morning.





But I didn't need a sawmill.








Okay.
Okay.



It's none of my business, but it would've been better to hire Negroes than jailers.

















Money is the most important thing in the world.











Okay.







If it's good, I'm ready to do business even with the Yankee.




Dear Mrs. Kennedy.




What do you want?
I have important things to do.
Satisfied my curiosity on an important matter.









You think you're the first beauty and you're the yarn on the shoes you're wearing.



















- Big Sam?




Big Sam will help you out.











Honey.

















We'd better stop or someone's gonna talk.






























Scarlett was doing what she thought was right.
Our men do what they think is right, too.
























"Chapter one.






He left at the end of the first six months, if not earlier, and became more spirited and independent in my eyes.

















































































Mommy, I need water.











I had to prove they were somewhere else.


She and I are old friends.


This isn't the first time you've helped me.

























I didn't want you to be a widow with a little boy if Mr. Wilkes were hanged.







I saw him as a kid.












I'll be happy to talk to you.






















































I'm glad my mom died.
I'm glad she died and can't see me.
I always wanted to be like her, good, good, she was so disappointed.






Since we first met, I've realized that you're the only woman I need.





I'm sorry if I scared you with my passion, dear Scarlett-- I mean, dear Mrs. Kennedy.

To feel more beautiful, cleaner, saintly....




















You need an experienced man who knows women.


























- Yes, you're right, my dear.



With a diamond, with a big diamond.
The biggest diamond and the most vulgar ring in Atlanta.
And the most expensive honeymoon in New Orleans.



Still the same little hypocrite.





































- What can I find, darling?



Honey...







- You don't like New Orleans?
- I love New Orleans, but I want to go home to Tara.









Turn it into a beautiful plantation.

But we're gonna build a big new house in Atlanta, right?











She had three husbands, and I'm gonna be an old maid!










Who needs a boy?
No one wants the boys.


Mommy, is she beautiful?






















Happy day for me.

Yeah, it's a very happy day.


She's beautiful.


You're so beautiful.
The most beautiful child in the world.



I'll send her to Charleston's best school.
And you'll be accepted into the best families in the South.



She's the first person I've ever owned.




















































Yeah, 'cause you're ruining your happiness and you're flying to someone who's not gonna make you happy.

Imagine you're free, Mellie's dead, and you got Ashley you'd be happy?








Beautiful.













And very nice.











- Good morning, Mrs. Merriweather.
- Good morning, Captain Butler.
Good morning, Scarlett.


And now we're liking all these old meger--
- Good morning, Mrs. Whiteing.
- Good morning, Captain Butler.
Good morning, Scarlett.





Good morning, Mrs. Mead.
Good morning, Captain Butler.
Good morning, Scarlett.















Good morning.
Good morning, Dolly.

Good morning, Caroline.
I think there's a lot of good in a man who loves kids so much.










Okay, darling.









Beautiful.


You're gonna be the best rider.




Okay.















Let me show you your books so you know how bad a businessman I am.

When I wear a new hat, I get the numbers out of my head.
What are the numbers when it's such a beautiful hat?
Scarlett, you're getting prettier.





These lazy, warm, slow village twilights, the quiet laughter of the Negroes in the services, a calm and confident life of those days.



I didn't mean to grieve you, my dear.





You're not ready to go to Melanie's?


Young, cowardy little bitch!





























What a lovely dress, darling.



Mrs. Meade, here comes our dear Scarlett.

















- You must really need a drink.






































I've always admired your self-control, darling.





Good night.













Back pain isn't good.
And you seem happy.










I thought, and I realized it would be better for both of us to admit that we made a mistake and get divorced.


























You pretend to be a good mom and the cat is the best mom.
In an hour, she should be ready, and I'm warning you, I always thought it would be good for you to be whipped.




I've been waiting for you all morning.





I want to show you the Tower where the little princesses and the London Bridge lived.


Only if you want to, darling.


It's okay, Bonnie.





Big bear?















Don't you feel bad in London with me?









My dear girl!
Are you glad you're back?













A child needs a mother, even a bad one.











Who's the lucky father?






Is she better?











- Oh, no, she's much better.













































I pray to God you'll be all right.








But if we try, we can be happy.
What can make us happy?






We'll take Bonnie, we'll have a new honeymoon.


I know, but we don't need it.




You'd better think of me!










We're watching, darling.
















I'm glad you came.






He's been obsessed with the last few days.































Captain Butler agreed to the funeral tomorrow morning.















It's morning.
It's not morning yet.













































































- Her last words were about you.





It's convenient to have the first wife's permission, right?


I'm leaving you, my dear.
You need a divorce, and your dream of Ashley will come true.





















































And I don't care, darling.

























'Cause tomorrow's gonna be a new day!































































- Yeah, it's beautiful. Let's drink to beauty, Sir Humphrey!

Chadwick, bring my figure, I want to enjoy a beautiful one.






- The best hottie in the county.


- We'd better not get to know each other.














Any argument has to be respected.










Thank you. But I didn't come for poetry. I need a horse.























Beautiful. I'll take him to your next of kin myself.






- Give her everything she needs. - Yes, sir.




You don't have to, right?





























Yes, of course, darling.





















Come on, honey.




Yeah, I've had nice girls complimenting me before.





































But she was nice. You didn't recognize me, did you?
You left when I was a little girl.

What was I like? Beautiful.




Joss is a good husband, and I don't regret what I did.





























































They cost a hundred times more than the lives of hundreds of drunken seafarers.
They're perfect, the best of their kind, and that's the most important thing.





I'll send her back in the morning.












Yeah, we were hoping for more.

My guys want to know where the money goes, they want more.







































I need a bar about two metres from the floor.


We don't need witnesses.







It's better to shoot.


- Well, it's not that bad.





I'll be there in a minute. - Okay.





You'll have a better place:

















Again for the old one, Dandy.

















"And she's a nice girl," I thought, "and she has a temper."























- We have to run, let's go.














- And she was very good! In your absence, the butcher came in here, demanding payment of the debt.





























And in our little organization, you and your guys are just a frame.




















- What a big boat, huh?





Now! - Dandy, bring the rope. - Okay.






















On page 13, there are beautiful lines.



And they're a beautiful couple.





They must have picked up the boat. In case you need help, Mr. Tracrane, your good old friend Thomas is coming down to you!




Fine, Harry.








I'm gonna be okay.


























Good morning.




I need money too, I won't be sir without it.









































She's the oldest resident, she'll live a decent life.




You have to let me in, it's very important.
My sweet girl!
















Sir Humphrey, we need your help.

























- Aren't you gonna have a good brandy?








Get him a chicken with a claret in my office.


















Smugglers? No, Sir Humphrey, it's worse.









There's been so much going on this morning. - What did the ships have in common?








- Good luck, Captain.
















That's right, Joss is preparing the guys for a new crash.










































- Ready?















- Okay.







And tell Mrs Black to help the young lady. If she convinces her to sleep, it's gonna be great.





- You're not ready yet?













- This is the last chance to get away from him.













- You're fast, Mr. Trackern. - Of course, police time is expensive.





What's wrong with that?



























That's very nice of Joss.




























Okay.











Merlin, this is a big deal, I need money.









- So this is the last case?
- The last one in the series. Tonight I'm going to San - Little.

They are in great demand in France.






I think we're ready.



Joss, this is your last chance.


Really, I'm gonna have to put his name in it.



























































Beautiful. And even death will not part them.

You'll be blown up as soon as you can.





We need him.














- I need you.

You can do this, darling. Mind you, she's nervous.























I know your husband better than you do.





If this man escapes, your husband will pay for it with his life. So you understand how important your mission is.




On the trigger. And it's gonna be okay.














Can I get you a nice ring?



























- I need a crew. In the name of the law. Here's the warrant.















I'm very happy, I don't care anymore.
I'm glad! Shut up, you fool!






















Keep an eye on my merin, okay?



















Patience, darling.
Joss, it's gonna be okay.
I'll take care of you. You're good, Patience.









We'll start a new life.

Like the first time in Bodmin.













Okay, Joss.
























I don't want anyone to see you like that.
Here. I'm glad you're quiet.



















- Good question.






Sergeant, we need six men.







I'm ready, put it on.























But it takes money, you say.

To lead a life, a gentleman like you needs money.
And there are other values like you, my dear.









- Sir Humphrey, big cabin.

All right, sir.


Isn't this the best cabin?












I'll pick up a new wardrobe for you.




Be beautiful.
You can stay with character, but you have to be beautiful.
Well, tonight, we need character, in our dark age.









































Okay.





How did he feel this morning?
Okay.


How is our dear Mr. Kidley?

That's good, that's good!



Good morning!






- Good afternoon. - How did Mr. Kidley feel this morning?


That's good.





























- Okay...



He's the biggest gastrointestinal specialist in Europe.








Beautiful weather!































Ever since it became known that I have $20 million and bad health, every woman is willing to fall in love with me.








Okay, go open up. No! No!



































Honey, of course it's me.























You're as innocent as a child... as a little child...
We can be happy together,













































- Well...







- Okay.




We're in real trouble!












Okay.




What lovely fish!





















He's been a little loose lately, hasn't he, Kipper?










Okay.
Very good.
















Is that great, great, or not?



















"The last case is a young Greek shepherd named Peropelis."


"On the last day, he came out with his lambs."







You're the first human dog!






























Yeah, that was a big mistake.

I'd suggest you do it with flowers, it's gonna be beautiful.








They say cremation is a very good thing.







All right, sir!


And I'm beginning to understand how beautiful the world is only now that I have 30 days left...









- All right!
- All right!















Oh, Henry, darling!








Henry was good enough for me when we were poor farmers.







You're gonna marry him! And that's my last word!














































He's so big, so strong, so nice.

When we were little... he ate a cockroach just because I asked him to.















I'm the last American to turn into zero.








Very nice.
You're a good girl, Mickey.
























I want him ready for the ceremony!


Which would be good if you were ready soon. - I don't like that tone. - Okay, Jeepers...


































I don't even know you... not very well.





Okay, I don't know.











You, Your Grace, have spoken very well, and if the bulge on my left pocket... does not become flat immediately after the ceremony, Your Grace will have a wonderful opportunity to entertain the police with his beautiful sense of humor.














- Okay...


























Okay.















































- All right, sit down!













































- It's not good right now.

















Come on, darling.
I'd rather you didn't call her "darling," okay?

Isn't that nice, Mr. Kidley?

Whoa, darling!




Yeah, it's big.


No, Henry, it's something bigger, it's... look at them.







Henry, this is the first time we've been alone together...
















At least play a little horse, please!
- Okay.











Good night, Mickey.
Good night, Henry. - Good night!


Good night, Henry. I'll see you tomorrow morning.
Good night.













Tomorrow morning doesn't suit me, Mr. Kidley.
- Well, okay.

- What's the matter? I'm sick!





And it's our job to make sure he's happy and...
What do we care if he's happy or not?





Mr. Kidley, I've been watching you very carefully lately, you don't keep your promise:








Yeah, special breakfast for our two little doves.













Thank you very much!




Oh, Mr. Kidley, that's so sweet.





- Sit down for a minute, okay? - Sure.








You have to conquer them, tell them beautiful words...















- Okay.









- All right.





















- Okay.





Well, okay.

Are you ready?

































One day, little Tru-la-la met the big Umpa-pa.


And little Tra-la-la kissed the big Umpa-pa.





Now little Tra-la-la has a little Umpa-pa.
He can only say "pa-pa" for now, but his mom and dad are hoping that the day will come and he'll be a very big Umpa-pa...

One day, little Tru-la-la met the big Umpa-pa,


When little Tra-la-la kissed the big Umpa-pa





Now little Tra-la-la has a little Umpa-pa.



They hope that the day will come and become a big Umpa-pa.


























Good night, boys.
- Good night.
- Good night, Mickey.









- Okay, close it!









Okay, I'll tell you the truth.























- Good night.
- Good night.







I need your leg.








Honey, talk to me, please.





























Mr. Kidley, I'd love to know what you're going to do to get us out of this stupid situation.










So I'm ready to marry you...







- Okay.
- What do you mean? - Oh, John, my dear, there's something else:
























Dear Henry, I want you to be happy with Mrs. Kidley.




You're very beautiful yourself, Mrs. Marco.
You're very nice.
Henry, can I recommend my lawyers to you? They're very good... they could follow Mr. Kidley's will.









Sir, maybe there's something important out there.
Nothing matters, Jeepers, except life itself.

When I arrived, I noticed a big change in you.













I want you to remember these last days all your life.
Okay...







Your hair is very beautiful.

We need to figure out what we're gonna do in your last 18 days.
























"I'm happy to inform you that your tests are normal.




"I'm happy to inform you that your tests are normal.




























I'm still sick.





You're doing everything you can for me, you're one of the best people I've ever met.










Nonsense, Mr. Kidley, you did everything you could to make me and Mickey happy. You know how I feel about her.
































Yeah, and what happens is sometimes for the best, Mickey.
All right, see you later.









Yeah, it's very good, it's all... but what's gonna help me if I'm his... puff-f... if I'm gonna...



It won't be your first duel.























All right, Mr. Kidley!




















Yes, very nice!






He's got a very good temper.



Okay, Mickey.





My new hat!









You have a good temper, too.























He'll be ready soon.










I'm in great shape.



Okay.




Oh, my dear John, it's our turn now.






























- They're not gonna kill you.
































- They're ready.





Okay.
















Are you ready?











Ready?







Or do you want to prove yourself as the last coward? - Yes!

Very good.





































































-...with a separate safe. - It's even better.










There was only one such a big one.


Of course, if we lay down the contents of the suitcase... in three or four storage cells... we can take a small number.

- Yeah, that's a good idea.













Yes, arrived this morning.
Thank you very much.










- Okay, Raconin.
- Thank you very much.

- Okay, monsieur.

- Good morning, Swana.
Terrible morning! Terrible!












- Good morning, darling.
- Good morning.

Honey, it was in your best interest.





Honey, you're so kind to me!









- But, honey, if you don't... be afraid to tell us about your past, we won't have to be afraid for our future.








Okay, I'll take it.



















Three Soviet representatives arrived this morning.







Thank you, dear friend, I'll be in touch.





I need Monsieur Cornilon. It's very important.






Yes! We need to do something right now.








Okay.
Yeah, okay, I'll call you back.




Of course, you can take the case to court... but you need money for it. Money!

Honey, calm down.






Gentlemen, I'll tell you a little secret.

















You need money, and you need it now.











All right, we'll support Russia's prestige for another ten minutes.

















Who are you, and what do you want?










Gentlemen, this new circumstance has led to a deadlock in the negotiations.


























All right, talk to your lawyer.











More importantly, what she's gonna look like.


Have you ever seen what a French court turns into... when a beautiful woman sits in a witness chair and lifts her skirt a little?


No, I'm not a burglar from a big road, more like a bone in the throat.






























As a result of a long and serious examination of the matter... we have come to the conclusion that, in the interest of our beloved homeland... the best solution will be to share the values in half.


































Send our stuff to the smallest room you have. Yes.


























What do you want?














The Russians are getting smaller, but it's better than the Russians.





















And we're very happy to be able to move... to a small room next to the servants' rooms.





















All you have to do is call, and you'll get whatever you want.







- We had the best intentions.





Go immediately to our embassy... and get the address of the best lawyer in Paris.
















Send him to your new number, 985...









How many minutes between the first whistle and the second whistle?






Can you believe it? Spend an important part of your life on some whistles!





















I forgot to catch the last time I jumped.



















Nothing has undermined my self-esteem lately.
















The first platform is led by a ladder consisting of... 829 steps.









- Yeah, it's beautiful.
It's a good thing you were here before you disappeared from the face of the Earth.


It doesn't make you a bad person.




I don't deny it's beautiful. But it's a waste of power.

Big boulevards circling the heart of the old city!





























Nothing will give me more pleasure.








He's very old.































To keep the body strong, to keep the spirit awake... and to keep the landlord calm, to work full-time.



But for his beautiful half, my file isn't so disheartening.





















You don't have to do anything.




I'm ready to repeat your name a thousand times.




































It's just that you feel that for more pleasure... you need an atmosphere of romance.
I don't see anything wrong with that.





















Perhaps one of your friends needs you.
You'd better answer that.





No, I met an old army friend.




I'm ready to meet her whenever she wants.













- No, I have a better offer.


Okay, you can fight me all you want, just wait till morning.






















Bye, honey.

















Or better at the window?













Personally, at 5:00 a.m., I was fishing in Seine.

- Okay, monsieur.


























And it's a title that needs to be earned!








I'm always happy to have a new visitor.
I hope your first visit isn't the last.
He's an old man.

What do you want from me?





We're gonna win, even better.
























If so, you'd better go back to your table.






























I wish this meeting hadn't happened.






Then the first one says, "Wow!






Okay, last try.








Good joke?








































Yeah... I'm sorry to hear that.































- Okay.










Yeah... yeah... and then he was in a good mood all day.
















I'm not angry that you haven't paid me for the second month... just the thought that I'm gonna have to share my bank account with you... give you half of all my savings... understand, monsieur, I'm not ready to do this.






























Honey, I...





























She's very beautiful.

















Right after the opera, thank you very much.






The table is small, but we'll add a few chairs.











































But the headache for the morning is worth the toast.



Hello, my dear!





- Are you wearing a new suit? - Yes, Swana.






















You should see how important he's walking the streets now.
It's such a little boulevard.


















How little we know about the new Russia!



That's right. In old Russia, people like me... it was awkward to wear deep-cut dresses.





Please, let's not talk about old times.




















Much better.





Good story?


To the most beautiful story I've ever heard.



I feel so good!



Of course, love. Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.

Honey, darling, please.





































- No, honey, no one's gonna find us.



- Okay, make it red.











I'm so happy! So happy!











Okay.





It's the kind of box that you buy at a time... just turn it on, and you're already being offered a new model.
















Yeah, honey, just the two of us.







So big.
The tears of old Russia.




Honey, hold on.



"Honey, I took Gaston to the market this morning and...

Come on, darling, put it on.


Let them know what might look better.

















Another happy moment.
- We're happy, aren't we, Leon?
- Yeah, honey.
I'm so happy... and I'm so tired.


- Good morning.

It's morning.





I know exactly how you feel right now, my dear.
It can't be a good morning if you wake up in an evening dress.




- Of course not, my dear!




"I'm very glad to see you!"















That's why you don't live in Russia anymore... and that's why you came here this morning.

My dear, you have no idea... what a powerful impression I can make.






You've taken our pebbles very lightly, my dear.
They're too expensive to be a toy for two kids.























Okay, let's look at the facts.



















I'm ready to hand over the jewels and sign all the necessary papers... if today, flight 17:40, you're going to Moscow.


I think I know Leon as well as you do.
Maybe it's better.









It's okay, thanks.



There's a lot to do.






Okay, let's go at 7:00.





Honey, they brought your present.



Goodbye, darling.











Okay.
Leon, darling, I'm so glad!









Did you forget our first commandment?





Okay.



I could have picked up a hundred different epithets... but it would be better to say it directly.



























By the way, there are rumors... that Russia is bad with laundry.
Should I bring a towel?


- We change towels every week. - Thank you very much.













- I need to go to Russia now.















A very dear friend...




But I have to get to your country! I won't give you a visa.

















- No, but... I have a better idea.




























Have you heard the last rumors about the Kremlin?





































Isn't she so beautiful?





Then what do they wear in the morning?








You're gonna need a special cloth to make this.


Nino, I wouldn't ask if we weren't good friends...











...every man is important to Soviet Russia... how important to space each atom of thirty million peasants, i.e. 85% of the population per car, and a man on a tractor - let them try to catch up with us honored...





As they say, the guests are good, but the houses are better.












A real meeting of old Parisian friends!



























People have such happy faces... when you look from here...




It's as good as that.







































Bad news?









- Good morning, comrade.
- Good morning, Comrade Commissioner.







- I don't need a lot of sleep.



























Finishing the review is more important than finding out how many extra glasses of champagne... three of our comrades have had.




































Can you believe we don't have to whisper anymore?














"Bread with water is better than a pie with trouble."

































In the beginning, there was "Dear Ninoche" and then "Your Leon."


But it takes time, Nino.


Okay, if you don't stay, you're gonna have to keep fighting.
































Come on, that's a great achievement.


How happy I am!

It's good to see you!












You must be happy.























Are you happy?


I'm very happy with you, madam.




















Old story:



















- We're late, darling.

New?







How could you reject him? That little location mark he was so touchingly begging for.


You made me so happy!








Let me stay a minute, darling.





Then in the morning.








































My dear, I'm so sorry.

It's a good thing you're so uninvolved.




















- Okay, I'm crazy!

You'll be happy to get rid of me.












She needs a lookout.



















I don't need a lecture.
I need Christine.























Let me wish her a good morning.









Good morning, darling.











Oh, yeah, you have a big secret.













Okay, tell me your secret.












Listen, darling.


You're always gonna be my little Zalzburg girl.













Or better yet, goodbye.





You old fool!














Make me two eggs, a big piece of ham and a glass of white wine.



Okay.



















But in return, I need your favor.
Do you need money?
You know you're a good person?








That's very good!

















They'd better see each other and explain themselves.














My dear, put this on the table.
I have some important news.
















Okay, Your Grace.
- I'm so happy to be here.







Very good.












On the full moon, we kill less than usual.





















































Just for a tiny little rabbit!







































So you're happy to work for me?
Of course, but I'd be more happy to serve in the château.












It was sunny this morning.

- The last time he walked was for two weeks.
























- Hello, my dear.





















And all the salts are ready.





















- It was really nice of you to come.

My dear Andre.







My dear Journey, I'm proud to shake your hand.


















Dear friends,

In his feat, and I played a small part.






It's important to listen.


Aunt, I'm so happy.





















He must be in a good position.



I can have a little party at my house in Turken.
This Furier is beautiful.




That's not good.


















- Okay, but Countess...














- Madame still needs me.

You know, or maybe, you don't know, to be good, you pour white wine on potatoes while it's hot.







I'm the new servant.

What can you do, my dear?

- Are you cleaning your shoes, my dear?


Tomorrow morning, you will pick up your shoes at the door of the guest rooms.


- Yes, my dear.










I wish there was a good catch.
Last year, in Kaena, we only shot 60 pheasants on the first day.















I'll come make sure you have everything you need.

























Whatever you show me, it's gonna be great.
- You're a great musician.

William, I don't need you at night.

- Have a good sleep.

Have a good sleep.











I don't need you today.





They need to be looked after.



Have you heard of the new servant?
He's very nice.
















Darling, I've never heard of this radio thing.
That confirms my opinion that our little Christine has a class.

















- He was yours, my dear.


















That's right, last sit-down.













One day you'll wake up and notice that the concierge's daughter has beautiful eyes.





Ready on the left?










I'm a bad shot today.


















- I need to talk to you.



































His Lordship is a better shooter.










- They're nice, but they're bad.




This one's small enough to carry with it.

Okay.

























- That would be best.





But goodbye.






















Good morning, Your Grace.





- It's better if I go.
Better?



Dear Genevieve, can we speak frankly?





Good old Robert.




















If you stay, my husband will look at you more and less at me, which is what I need right now.

























Beautiful coat.



We hit it with confidence and on the first time...

Get used to your new job?












I'm glad.







Shoes, my dear!




















We need to talk!









That's good.
































It's like the house is so important!



























- That's what money's for.


When it comes to a woman, I want to leave her or be with her, the first thing I do is make her laugh.


You need talent here.

































My dear Christina, I apologize.
He'll have my seconds in the morning.
I sleep in the morning.




























I think I can make you happy.











Dear friends, may I present to you my latest acquisition.























Elsa's must be very handsome-- tall eating, snow, stork.




For the last time!































Poor little Christina.






















One day you'll find her.

Now, darling, let's talk about us.







- Old spirit!









He took his wand from the first violin.

































Yeah, honey, I'm going to bed.
You need this.


Calm down, darling.
See you in the morning.
Good night.











Good night.












Have a good sleep.







Beautiful evening!




Good night.





















Okay.

Darling, I'm asking you to leave, too.





















- You don't have to...


I wasn't better.










But I'm glad she chose someone from our circle.













Okay.


















I'm so happy!










For the past three years, my life has been built on lies.






























Have a good day, Officer."
























Beautiful night.


























You're a wonderful man.


But you need to be taken care of.


I'm too old.
















The train to Lamot-Bevron at 3:00 a.m. Let's take it.
















Okay.

It's beautiful!



But if you live together, the young must live with the young and the old with the old.


Madame needs a lot of things.





Madame won't be happy with you.












































Madame needs me.








They need us, Cornell.



























Tomorrow we will leave the château, mourning our lovely friend, a beautiful friend who made us forget how famous he is.
Dear friends, it's cool now.



New definition of "accident".

Now that's rare, dear St. Aben.















- Just the first word, sir.






- Okay, Buck.






















It's so good to see you, Lucy.







I need guards.








Better stay away from this Luke Plumer, that's for sure.










It's good for business.


And remember, what's good for banks is good for the country.


Goodbye, beautiful Elena.










These lovely ladies of the Law and Order League are escorting us out of town.






Nobody in Kansas sets the table better than my wife Violet.

If words were money, Doc, you'd be my best customer.


Yes, my old friend. I thought maybe in memory of our many happy...
















Henry, I need $5.
Yes, darling, of course.








Well, have a good trip, Dallas.













There's a doctor there, darling.




Lucy, honey, be careful.


- Have a good trip, Mrs. Melory.

































These women are worse than the Apaches.







What do you need for another place?































Good soldiers are escorting us.














That's a good name for a killer.




















Okay, Ringo.















Ringo's a good guy, isn't he?






























Doc didn't mean anything wrong.

This is my old friend, Sergeant Billy Pickett.


It's really good to see you.







- So we have to go back to saying goodbye.















All right, calm down.


































During the last war, when I had the privilege of serving the Alliance under the leadership of our great President, Abraham Lincoln, and General Sheridan, I was not afraid of explosions or shells...







You know, brother, given the circumstances, I think it's best to come back with the elephants, i.e. the soldiers.







































I was a good cowboy once. But everything happens in life.









Mrs. Pickett, tell Billy everything's ready.
- We're ready, Sheriff.





Okay, I'll say something with meaning.



And it's gonna be a lot quieter.





















I think every newspaper needs a slogan.





This country needs a businessman to be president.
This country needs a little more drink.



I'm happy, Gatewood.
Why did you go this way?

















It's so good.


We need to eat, change horses.



































Beautiful introduction to the medical community.



More.




















I thought it wasn't so bad if the Apache wife.
















You don't have to do that.








He was a good friend.









Don't go too far, Miss Dallas.





















Nice place, very good place.







I know everything I need to know.



































- We need to think about a sick woman.







Good idea, Curly, just... the doctor probably needs to see the patient.
Right, and a little coyote.


Good morning.






All right, little coyote, we gotta go to Lorzburg.
When he cried, that's what the guys called him yesterday. Little coyote.







You need rest and strength.




Don't be so proud of it.

Although the last child is always the most beautiful.


If a man and a woman love a friend, then it's okay, isn't it, doctor?































There's a young woman in the kitchen making coffee, she needs help.



Good morning, ma'am.
Good morning.







I have to go to Lorzburg.













I don't need a life like this, Ringo.



















My dear Buck. If I have an hour to live, I'm gonna enjoy it.



Curly... if we get to the ferry, everything's gonna be okay.







No need, Curly.










We need to get to the ferry.








Just don't threaten me, Hetfield.




















- I need you.








































Where's the baby, sweetheart?

























I don't need them.






















Well, Kid, I told you, you don't have to follow me.









































Miss Guch hit Toto with a stick! She says he's climbing into her garden and chasing her filthy old cat!
















Look, honey, I'm so busy right now.








Listen, child. You want to get more from old Gooch?












Did the old pig scare you so much?





Okay, Mrs. Gail.





You know, Dorothy fell straight-- not the best place to play.



















































Bad old witch! Uncle! Aunt!








Toto, honey!


I'm so happy! Toto.



















And you want to see other countries, big cities, big mountains, big oceans.
















Now you better close your eyes, my child, for a minute to be closer to magical power.



























Do you think she's really sick? Ouch! Ouch!






Better hide, Sylvester!





































Fairies are old and scary.






I've never heard of beautiful fairies.

The jewons are happy now.


The little people who live here.
This is the country of gums, and you're their hero, my dear.
It's okay, you can go out and thank her.








She didn't feel so good about it...
Thank you so much for helping us.










But everything needs to be done solidly. Let's see.


























She's a lot worse than her sister was.






Well, my dear, I know how to do it, too!











You don't need them.


Their magic power is very great, or she wouldn't be asking for it.



Okay, but I'll be back!
You know, my dear, it's true that I'm powerless here, but still, stay away.




She's gone. It's okay.


The sooner you leave Oz, the better it will be for you, my dear.














It's always good to start over.



















That's a good road.




















- Thank you, okay.







That's nice of you, very nice.







It's good to be free!
































But even if he doesn't, it won't make you feel worse.

You don't want to go.





But I'm ready to meet even a matchbox just to get a little bit of brain.





















Come on, Dorothy, we don't need those apples.


She just doesn't like little green worms!





























































Helping the little princess, darlings?










You're the best friends in the world.



































Who's first?













Lift your paws, you bag of old straw!









You wanted to hurt a straw man, but when you took on a little dog...













That's not good.




He needs a heart.





Oh, my God, that's so sweet of you.

It's gonna be okay.






I'm afraid no one can help me, I'm a big coward, that's my destiny--











You're worse!


Now, my dears, here's some poison.







It's beautiful, isn't it?












It's beautiful!
















We need to get Dorothy out of here!















































That's better.





















That's what you need!


















One, two, three, shove the straw, you're gonna be a young and beautiful happy Oz country again.

















Over here! It's okay! Stop!
It's okay.










But please! It's very important!



































































I'd rather wait outside.




Okay, we'll ask for you instead.















You know, I'm Dorothy, small and stupid.
























But first you have to prove you're worthy and solve a small problem.




















Do what you want with the others, and I need her alive and unharmed!



I need them the most.
















We need to save Dorothy!
Nice doggy.
And you're my darling, you're adorable.
How nice of you to visit me in my privacy.






Okay.



Good girl.





































You're gonna get Aunt Em, honey!

























Okay, I'm going there for Dorothy.

























Dorothy, are you okay?





















Okay.














It's a nightmare! It's a nightmare! Who would have thought a little girl could beat me?














Take it with you. - Thank you very much.








Very good.




























You're a bad person.

I'm a very good man.
I'm just a bad magician.
























And so, by the power vested in me, I reward you for your courage, for the courage shown in the struggle against evil fairies, and I give you the Grand Cross.










So, as proof of your kindness, I'm extremely pleased to present you with this little gift right now.
Remember, my sentimental friend, heart matters not how much you love, but how much you love you.
























Suddenly, the wind changed, and the ball was driven to the very heart of this beautiful city, where I was called the powerful magician of Oz, the first Wizard of the country!

And now it's in this ball, dear Dorothy, that you and I will return to the land of our ancestors!
It's the best demonstration I've ever had. Well, that's, uh, that's right there, so to speak...






















It's very nice, but it's never gonna be like Kansas.






You don't have to help anymore.



















God, it's too good to be true!
















Yeah, I'm ready.

There's no place better than home.






Wake up, honey.

Better at home...

Dorothy, darling. This is Aunt Emmy, darling.












You remember Hank's old friend?








And I remember that something wasn't very nice, but mostly, it was very beautiful.








And Aunt Em, there's no place better than home!



















The first one to come, the first one to take.





The best is always the last. Don't you think?














- Okay.





























- Who's ready?













I'd be happy if the old man on the horse was my grandfather.











- I don't want your mask.


























It's gonna be okay.





















It's better this way.
They're big enough to know.









I think he's planning something bad.







I need more cows to expand our farm and get the money back.





































































- Honey! Honey!












- You ready?





















It's all beautiful...

You're always weak and it's not good.


















- He's just a little devil.


It means I'm really old.














- Yeah, I have big ones, my grandmother gave it to me.
























Little chairman.

















But it's a lot of money.






- But the best way is to write them off.

- Let's clear up the best way.






































That's not good.







We've been reducing workers' wages lately.














But it's about the big money.






I hope it doesn't cause much trouble.

































"We need you.













It's offensive to open a letter with my first name on it.




























- Okay.











- That's a good idea.













































- He's much better, they said.



- Oyama gets two bottles for the first day of the month.



- Okay.





A nice little calf will help you get new customers.






- But we got new clients.
- Let's get some more calves next time we get more new customers.






































































- It's gonna be okay.

























- Okay, I'll take Aoyama's debt.












- Your father's getting worse.









































Okay?
















You're just a small investor, and we can't expect a big dividend.


- That's good.
































































Most of it's gonna be for the Ono family.



































That was good.

- Okay.









- You motivated it really well.

He's gonna make a good speech.
He's gonna make a good excuse before he's attacked by a chicken.



























- I'm first!







































































































- Okay!







The calves are big.








- She's big, too.












Don't you have to study?





























































































His mom's good.












- If this rumor is right and Rockai is also in the leadership of Yamaoka's weaving company, it's a big problem.

But maybe he thinks that if he can push the company against each other, he'll be in a good position.

















- I think everything he did, he did for himself in the first place, but also for "It" in the end.





































Honey!









































Hope, of course, okay, but that's what's gonna happen?



Ricardo, repeat the success of London's horse show and I'll be happy.




















Is she that bad?


























I need to see this.










Congratulations, sir, that was the best jump I've seen in a year.
Thank you very much, señorita.
















This is your last chance.




- Okay.




























I swear by the old castanites that you won't forget Argentina.













I swear by the old castanites.



































Old South American tradition, I suppose?
















































- We still have the last dance, don't we?











Who could have been so happy.







Thank you very much.













Congratulate me, darling.











Probably because it was my dance, darling.








If I'm not mistaken, you were ready to dance with me.














- Good morning, Aunt Binnie.
- Good morning, Miss Crawford.















































- Thank you very much.

























































She's so beautiful!







Now, after we've met well, just call me Tito.














Beautiful.
Sorry to leave you, darling.
























Maybe it's better to start again.

































It's a pretty big sum.












I'm Tito Acuña, best guide in Buenos Aires.






















































Excuse me, I need to deal with the horse.













I'd be much happier if you had the horse.
















- Oh, good.


























You said it was too beautiful to lose, didn't you, Ricardo?









I'm perfectly calm about her.















I'm Tito Acuña, best guide in Buenos Aires. And today was just a business that I wasn't paid for.






Thank you very much.













Well, Ricardo, my eyes aren't the same as when I was young, but she's young and beautiful, like a flower.





That old grunt said he'd go after Don Diego.


















This is Furioso, the best racer in Argentina.
In the last three years, three, he hasn't lost a single competition.


Follow him, Casiano, or he'll come back to the old pasture.















Okay, I'm gonna go.


















All right.








This is where our best horses are buried.



- That was my father's best horse.
















That's too bad.










Thank you very much.

I'll be waiting for you. Have a nice day.









There are real Argentines living in this small village.
























And you'll be happy.





















That's my father's best horse.














- I didn't mean anything wrong.










Casiano, if my father finds out what you're doing to his best horse, he'll stick your ears to the stable door.








He's happy.


It's a big mistake.















For me, Ricardo, it's not that important.















♪ Beautiful love was born ♪
















Who could have been so happy.











He jumps with your dad in the morning, and he runs with you in the afternoon.
He couldn't jump over the bar this morning.

















He's gonna be okay.










(Announcer ) : First category.

A very good horse.







When you were a kid, who fed you when your mom got sick?



Okay.


- Glenda, darling, what a surprise.

















Keep your mouth shut, you old bastard.



(Announcer ) Champion of the last three years, horse Furioso, owner of Mr Diego Quintana.









- I don't need your comfort.













The best thing we can do for him is not to interfere.
















That's sweet.
What I need.





Notice the lovely Herker with the most beautiful view of the city.
- We've been trying to reach you all morning.

It doesn't matter.




















It doesn't matter what he says... he still likes you.

























































It gives me great pleasure that Quintana's horse is taking part in the race.












And this horse is even better.



























Oh, I don't need chicken food.
I need the money.


Martinez, I need some money.

All for an old friend.








































































- Tortilia will come first.














Very bad.







At first, I wanted Furioso off the race, but this guy said he was a good jockey.



Maybe this guy is a really good jockey.

- Don Diego, I'm so glad.
I have no doubt that you are happy, señorita, to see this jockey on Furioso's back.
































































Whoever remembers the old ones, they're out there.






























I swear to the old castities that you won't forget Argentina, Tsk-tsk-tsk-tsk, Tsk-tsk-tsk.




♪ Beautiful love was born ♪








Dear friends.
My name is Diems Taylor. And I warmly welcome you here... on behalf of Walt Disney, Leopold Stokovsky... and all the artists and musicians whose combined talent... led to the creation of the latest form of representation called Fantasia.

In other words, it will not be a new interpretation of the performance of trained musicians.
And I think it's for the best.

The first type will tell a clear story.

















In fact, in this case, the story was born first, and the composer wrote a musical escort for it.






But unfortunately for himself, forgetting the important spell that would make the broom stop carrying water, he realized that he woke up something that didn't want to calm down.













It's a perfectly accurate replication of what scientists believe was happening on this planet for the first billions of years.

According to scientists, the first living creatures were single-cell organisms, tiny white and green droplets of voids that lived under water.

Finally, about a billion years later, one of the fish, the most ambitious of all, crawled out to shore and became the first amphibian.








The worst of all, an animal named Tyrannosaurus, was considered the most vicious killer ever carried by the earth.








So, imagine that you've been floating in space billions and billions of years ago, in spite of this lonely, exhausted little planet flying through the empty ocean of non-existence.





And then I realized that it's not only a very important member of the company, it's also a character for a movie whose potential no one around me has ever noticed.



It's okay.


When I watched him, I realized that any beautiful sound produced an equally beautiful picture.
















Thank you very much, old man.



And since his music is more than that, Walt Disney did a Pastoral Symphony in the form of legends and myths.



Later, we will see our old friend Wakha, the god of wine, who will lead his Wakchanalia.











At the end of the day, the last band will dance with their dark watches of the night.


The last issue of Fantasia is two combined works of art, so different in design and tone, that they perfectly balance each other.
The first piece, "The Night on the Ladies Mountain", by the great Russian composer Modest of Musorg.




Under his spells, they will dance fiercely until the dawn comes and the first bell rings send the devil's army back to their place of darkness.











































We must admit that there is a clear line between superstition and supernatural.
All I know is that in the last 20 years, no person who tried to sleep in Castillo Maldito has lived until dawn.

Okay.













What night... someone doesn't want me?







Beautiful...







































I've got a better story.



























It's better now.









I'm waiting for the morning when I come to wake up, and I'm gonna have to pull the blanket, not pull it back.







You get to the window at 6:00 a.m., you open up, you get in, and you get in bed.




Get up at 6:00 A.M., climb the windows...












Beautiful.


And this, my dear, is your ticket to Havana if you still need it.

Here's a good reason:



Who needs a castle with used ghosts for that kind of money?


























Don't rush, darling, there's time to sail.






Thanks for everything. Happy to help.







Good night.










You've all heard of Frenchy Duval, the big shot in our fussy criminal world.



Frenchy's got everything on the record until the last sock.
And now Frenchy has a new racket-- baby laundry.




















You'd be a fine judge.



















There's nothing to be afraid of, he's an old friend of mine.

























I'm glad.




































Yes. That's enough for the last sip.























































































































































































Beautiful!
It's beautiful!








That's too good, isn't it?




















Lady, do you want this suitcase in Cuba or not?

That's good.





The keys are in the little suitcase.


















It's a good thing he's in the suitcase.










What's new?





Everything's fine, thank you.
That's the last signal from the walkers, isn't it?













So, my dear lady, who called you?



I don't remember. It's important that you remember.
Mr. Parada, you really have to go.


But, honey, I'm coming with you.















Why don't you sit down?


Yeah, that's better.

































Okay. Miss Carter saved my life.

















Beautiful view, huh?





No, first trip.


















Your uncle, your mother's brother, was the last.






I'd give you a lot for a good joke right now.





























I think I'll start with the old one and get to the present day.

Okay.
Oh, great.




Good old-fashioned vice.



Women are called Pilgrim. Dance with the new lady, I move forward.



















I know it's been a rough night, and I don't know what's going on, but don't lose your breath, darling.















Goodbye, Mary. Better luck!
























Someone found out he wanted to tell you something important, and there's no Mederos.

I'm willing to swear it's Parada, but he looks like the culprit, and in cases like this, he doesn't suspect the obvious culprits.










Feed once a day, walk for a few minutes in the morning and in the evening.






Good night.
Good night.

Lock the door and don't open until morning.


You know, if we were to be on a beautiful lake in a boat, folded by the current, in serenity, under millions of stars and a huge moon, with a light breeze that spreads the fragrances of many roses.



Good night.
Good night.











Good night.



"Done in 1597, Morro's fortress is horribly guarding the beautiful harbour of Havana, with its history of looting, slave trade and piracy."















Good morning, Miss Carter.
Good morning.




















































I'll go there first.

































It's worse than a nightmare, 'cause zombies don't have their will.






Yeah, before I forget, the Santana Hotel is good?
No worse than the others.
Best food at Las Palmas in Malecon.
Let me invite you tonight... both of you. To celebrate the first night in Havana.


The first night in Havana!
It's so sweet, it's romantic!

I haven't seen her more beautiful than this moment.














I'm sorry, but my doctor warned me this morning of a nervous shock.






































Okay.









Your father must have been as brave as your mother was.

































Your watch is behind you. That's the first one!


















































So stay here, and if any guys run down the stairs in a minute, don't touch the first one.



































It's better than a knife.

The oldest Don Santiago.












































































While we're here, let me say, you're the most beautiful ghost in the world.






She was beautiful, wasn't she?

And over the years, it's more beautiful.






































There's more here than at first sight...

























































Look at the old chains.









































Who's gonna faint first?


















All right, happy!




But there aren't many bastards that make a good man stick on a car.




















You sniffed me from head to toe with your big nose like a hound.






- I don't want any trouble.





















































Some people do good things, others don't. And that's all we can say.































Last time I saw him was at the baptism.




































It's good to see you again.





































You don't have to blame me.
Who should I blame?





Is there anyone who knows what a shotgun is for?





So who do we have to shoot?
































I have two little kids at home, my wife, my mother-in-law.

My family is the most important thing to me.






















I'm just an old ghost visiting.




It doesn't matter anymore. Touched, so touched, there's nothing you can do.














Come on, we need to hide.






















I saw him squeezing like an old pig.
Eyes must be closed during prayer, old!
























There's no choice, Tommy. But it's gonna be okay.














I just... I don't need an angry son.













- Hello, Tommy, it's okay.







































There's about 150 left for the first time.







I'm ready!
Rosa Sarona, honey, wake up the kids.







































We all need to get out.















It's bad, but it's mine.















- Then I'm gonna need a bigger dose.



















All set?











Mom, aren't you even gonna look back on the old house?







It's gonna be okay, Grandpa.




It's okay, Grandpa.

















I don't know if he was a good person or a bad person, but it doesn't matter.


But I won't pray for the old man. He's dead, and he's okay.






















Maybe when we get to the place, we'll find a job. Or maybe a piece of good land by the water, it's not gonna be that bad.



- It won't be worse than home.

No, we don't have any money. But there's a lot of us, all working good people.
Good money, hard work, and everything's gonna be okay.
Is it good to make money? At a collection of oranges and peaches?




Now I'm going back to starving. It's better to starve to death.

It says here in the flyer that they pay a good salary, and in the papers, I saw that fruit collectors were needed.


















A man needs 800 employees, he prints 5,000 flyers, 20,000 people see them.

























I'm telling you, I need to get out.
I need to get out now.













Any new jokes, Bill?

The little boy's late for school, the teacher says...





Our old lady needs bread...










































Okay. Don't stop.




Connie, maybe it's better on the other side.






















If there's no other way out, you don't need courage.





You don't have to be cranky.



Thank you very much.
























It's gonna be okay.

We need to get through.







If you don't need money, send them a coupon and become a radio specialist.

But we can still make it, honey.



We need to check your stuff.








We need to get her to a doctor.





And the grandma's really bad.










- Okay, thank you, Captain.







Wynfield, look how beautiful and green everything is!


It doesn't matter what it is, but it's beautiful!










Mom, are you okay?






Was Grandma sick?







The family needs to get out of the desert.







Can you tell me where you can find a job here, no matter what?






































It's good that not all of you are hungry.







We need to feed the family...






































Maybe more, maybe less.









Let's say he needs a thousand people.



































I just didn't have to be smart with anyone.






- We need to get out of here right now.

We need to load the car.





We have to hurry.











Come on, honey.































































He said there was work to be done here. Peaches have to be collected.
So you need a job?























Do you need a job?
- I do. What's that?















Come on, honey. Here we are.









We don't need any trouble from you.




Let's wash it properly, and it won't be so bad.




























Okay, mom.

















































It's gonna take two days, and they're gonna be willing to pay everyone 5. Or maybe seven.

















Rose Saron needs milk.

You, like me, have a lot to figure out.























































They started it.



They know you got a good face.



It's okay, Tommy.
Of course I wish you didn't, but you did what you thought was right. I don't see anything embarrassing about it.


























Okay, mom.

I know it's better to go, but I'll stay.




All right, mister.









I agree, okay, and if you don't, turn around and get out of here.








- Okay.

















He left this morning when the salary was reduced.


Didn't he have any bruises on his face this morning?









































The camp committee's gonna visit you in the morning, and that's where you're gonna figure it out.














Uncle John, are you okay?



















Best dance in the county every Saturday.




















I think we should stand in these rooms, and the water will flow from upstairs.







- Good morning.



You're a good worker, and that's why I'm gonna tell you.







I need to know.







I was gonna warn you they're gonna have a fight at camp on Saturday night. The cops will be outside, ready to break in at any moment.

I may have signed my own sentence, but you guys are as good as us, and I like you.


















- Go your way!



Beautiful girl you have.








Okay.























Keep an eye on them, okay?













That's what they need.







We're all set.





Women are always prettier when they're expecting a baby.





You don't have to rush out.














- In case of a fight, we don't need a warrant.





















I'd like to see how happy you'll be when you and your father settle down in some nice place.




If you hide the killer, it's not gonna work.
Okay, Tommy.





He was a good man.

People who live like pigs, while good land disappears.


















A man has no soul - he has a part of one great soul - one common soul.


- Then it doesn't matter.



You'll recognize me in the screams of madmen and in the laughter of children when they're hungry, but they know dinner's ready.















- I'm fine.




Mom, are you ready?






Careful, sweetheart. She's gonna be okay.



























I've only been living my memories lately - about how things used to be.

















In the rear there was a revolution, diplomats were seeking peace, while the army was still fighting on the front, confident of its invincibleness, ready to crush the enemy's lines.
"The Great Bertha," which shoots hundreds of miles away, appeared on the West Front, terrorizing the enemy's camp.











We need to check the fuse.















































No reason, sir. I'm glad to help you.




You have to stay with me. All right, sir.

















































Then I don't need them anymore.







Sweetheart, sweet Hilda.
Beautiful soul.













Under the new symbol of the Double Cross, freedom of speech was repressed.








"But to be strong, you need sacrifices."






















Very good.


You have to make people angry.



Good morning, Mr. Yakel.

Well, it can be worse.
If you think it might be worse, you have a great imagination.













It's not such a good morning after all.



All right, Mr. Yakel.


























And you need a truck to get away before they give you back?










































































You'd better hide.




































































Okay, I'm coming up.










$25 million for camps when every penny is needed for production.




Long working day, low wages, poor food, taste of sawdust in bread.

It's the best wood.

People are exhausted, they need entertainment.



We need something more impressive.
Time to take Osterlich. When are we ready?


We need to hit him now.









Okay, we're gonna change that policy.



The ghetto has been so quiet lately.




If it gets worse, we can go to Osterlich.


Anyway, I'm glad you're back.
Like old times, huh?




Good business is a beauty salon.








And I'm gonna be beautiful?




















Take it easy lately.


Too good to be true.


It's the only time I'm really happy.














I'm so beautiful.


And you're gonna be beautiful, too. - Yeah?














How wonderful it would be if we were allowed to live in peace, and we would be happy again.









Okay, then, then.















Shoot them all. I don't need disgruntled workers.

Let them work until we train new ones and then shoot them.










Worse than Jews. Destroy them all.












Beautiful blond Aryans.
























What else do you want?
Things are getting better.





Okay.









I'd better not go.


Yeah? Look, he's not ready yet?

Bad news. Osterlich's capture will have to be postponed.















Schultz, you need to rest.




Okay, but you'll remember what I said.

Your politics is worse than crime.












































They're coming for you! - You better get up on the roof!







Okay, where are the grenades?





Mr. Yakel says it's a beautiful country.




It would be nice to live in a village. Much better than in this old dug-up town.



Isn't she beautiful?






Okay.

























Commander Schultz, I apologize for my friend and, on behalf of all of us, I wish to say that it is a great honour for us to die for our country.














Our place is here, let's take care of our business. Good night!







































You'd better get up on the roof. Quick, both of you.
















- Okay.



















Well, good morning. How's it going?







Gentlemen, I am pleased to announce that we are finally ready to go to Osterlich.












I had everything ready.






Okay, you'll sign? Yes!












No, he hasn't played much lately.


He's been a little freaked out lately.





Very good.



Okay. We're gonna give him a shot!
He'll see the biggest military parade of all time! If Napoleigh is convinced of my power, he will leave Osterlich to me.




Our dear chief enters the train station, preparing to meet an honorary guest.













- No carpet. - Who needs this rug...
















It's a pleasure to meet you, dear Ginkel.


It's okay. It's okay, Mom. Where's my ambassador?






Tomenia... nice, sweet.







You're making a big mistake!






Before we do our plans, we need to put him back in place.





Beautiful. We'll also put him here next to your bust. And he's gonna feel like you're keeping an eye on him.







When you go in or out, you have to be the first.




It's good to see you again!









I'd rather sit up here. You know, Garbitch, it's a beautiful country.


Of course, people like new faces.










That's a good combination. No Mishura for you.

Big ball tonight. - Big ball?
- Big ball.


I'm afraid he will. Oh, so you have a big army, huh?







- Okay.


Nice, very nice.

And now it's a good barbershop.




And there's a good view through the ceiling.








That's why I'm building a new barbershop.



"Our dear Chief and his high-ranking guest have taken their seats, and they are anxious to follow this historic event."







I want to show you my new bombers.








"Newest developments, the last word of modern armaments."





















For more influence.








Excellent. Very good.
Okay.
My dear Adenoid!



That's a great idea.

There's an old Tomen saying...












Very good. Cream.













You told me to take the troops first. Don't you think I'll sign while your troops are at the border?











I'm calm, I just want to take care of it!









Strawberry! Your Excellency, we have a very important...
What's the matter? My guns are ready to attack! I'm gonna tear him to pieces!

















How's the conference going? With great success.












Your Excellency, I need to speak to you alone.














No, it's better to go to the open place. The border is on the other side.
















We're gonna get suspicious right away. We have to go forward with courage.




















- Okay. - Okay. I'm in constant contact with Marshal Hering in Osterlich.

- Okay. - Okay.
Are we ready for the offensive?


Schultz, it's good to see you back in our ranks.




















You have to. This is our last hope.









Life may be free and beautiful, but we've lost our way.





More than cars, we need humanity.



The very nature of these inventions calls for the best in man, calls for universal brotherhood and cohesion.














Authorities to create happiness! You can make life free and beautiful!

Unite! Fight for a new world! A glorious world that will give everyone the opportunity to work will provide a future for young people and peace for old people.











We come out of darkness to light. We enter a new world, a better world, where people overcome their hatred, greed, and rudeness.














- Okay, Jim.


































- Okay.


- Good to see you.







































































































































- You got a better one? - A lot.





- The editorial needs... -...at least one pretty girl.

You've become a great reporter, but you can't find better conditions.
- We're a team that needs each other.

- Okay, I won't say anything.

























Okay, okay, I get it.

























































Questions like, "Will Hitler unleash a new war?"














It's as good a class as anyone else, isn't it?
Of course it's as good as that.


Why not? I feel good with him.






He's sweet, he's kind and he's reliable.
And he needs a home and kids.




































- Okay. - I'm sorry, Hildy!









I see my wife found a decent fiancé. Nice to meet you.




































- It was pasturous this morning.











































She's the best.







































- Albany's good for him.




























We'll be in Albany by morning.



- Yeah, we still have to...




















Isn't he cute?

I wasn't a good husband, but I'll always be willing to help.






- He's not such a bad guy.










































- It's not that important.













- You're gonna make it as bad as I am.

- It needs a woman's hand.
























- We don't need...











- Isn't that a good thing?
















Thanks, honey.



















Well, okay.



















Jake, our client has a new guest.











It's Murphy. Everything's ready for execution.








- Good to see you.






































































- That's good.

















I was a very bad husband to her.

- See, she doesn't want my money.











Isn't she worthy of spending the last years of her life without thinking about money?






















Beautiful. I think Hildy would be ashamed that she didn't trust you.






























Bruce, newspaper people have this tradition of putting down the first big check for hat lining.



Me too. Honey, I know this sounds stupid, but do it for me.

Okay.




Okay. Okay.




- Okay.














































































We need a gun for the shooting, so I fired.











She's cute. - Is that a picture of her?






































- That's what I need you to do.

































And this morning, he left, and I never saw him again until the trial, where I appeared as a witness.




- You better go see your fiancé.

But it won't be long, he's on a date at 7:00 in the morning.










































What's new, Pete?



- Do you want to reschedule the execution time from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.?













... at 7:00 a.m. and not a minute earlier.






















- Okay, then read "The Gazette" in the morning.










He's a good man, Hildy.














"And at 7:00 a.m., if there is no miracle, the gallows will help the rebellious soul..."











Once the girl gets out, the old gossip girls are talking about her.







Take a pencil and write it down. Ready?













That's the last hello to your paper!



























- Yeah, we need a united front.
































Come on, it's important!










































































Okay, so...











































- Wherever you want, it's urgent.




Thank you and happy honeymoon!






































- What can I do for you, darling?
















































It was good to see you, Mayor.





























What do you want?

- What do you want?



































The police are ready to storm.















- We need a man in charge.









- No, you don't. - God, why?
























Nice place, they'll take care of you.




































Okay, but I could have tried.








































































I need you, I'm waiting!










- What do you want?











Okay.

















































- Okay.















Wait, it's not that bad.














































































Okay, look what I'm gonna do. I'll give you some good stuff.













- It's good to be alive!
















- It's important!









Sensation on the table, put it on the front page.





















Let's hide Williams till morning, and when the room comes out,..












- Stop talking!





















Yes! Clear the front page.
Yeah, I told you, the whole front page.

































- I'd rather have them.










- Very good.

























Career! - You don't need me anymore.















I need to know. - Yeah?
Walter, what was the mayor's first wife's name?








Duffy, did he tell Butch to take a cab and drive right away? Okay.






- Is that better?


- Okay. Where's Bruce?

























- It's a good thing we met.




I hope it's okay.





- Especially the finale.





- Yeah, we need a man like that.

















You give him everything he needs, okay?







I'm so glad, Mr. Burns, really, really happy!
Yeah, if you need a military correspondent, I know a little French.






No, I don't need it.




























- Where's the old lady?


























































- Okay, give it to me, I'll talk to you.























- Is it that important?









































































Honey, Morning Gazette doesn't interfere with justice or cover for murderers.




























- That's the man, that's him.

















If you're in trouble, it doesn't mean you should blame the first person you meet.












Easy.




- Quiet, you old hanger!






































- Good job, Pete.


- Beautiful.
























Yeah, I got two birds. I need their confessions.













































It's a good thing that we've been cleared of... the painful debt of execution.










- She's cute.












- He's an old friend of mine, we'll make a deal.












- When Duffy needs him, he's gone!








I think you'd better get out of the game.











Honey, don't you understand, this is the first time I've ever tried to look decent.
















It hurt me that you'd be happier with him.
- That's what you need.
- I can finish and leave in the morning.


Bye, honey, and good luck.



















Honey.
Honey, don't cry.



































Okay, Duffy.






Beautiful, isn't it?











Why would you keep it so secret?

Sweet cousin, your naivety is quite unbelievable.




I've been ripped off the first important case.































These two gentlemen shouldn't be left alone for long.

With everything that's beautiful.





It wouldn't be so bad if you, sir, explained why you called me.


Jeffrey, I have a decision to make, and I need your advice.



















Have you lost your last respect for your name?































Good night!










Don't remember my first meeting.









I had to tell the whole truth.





















You're already worthy of her, sweetheart. Now I'm sure the house should be sold.















I studied the old archives in Boston...









We're gonna tear this house apart and find them!




It still needs to be checked.



Well, good night.


Good morning, Mr Fuller!
Good morning, Miss Hefsiba!
You have a new horse!


Mr. Fuller, starting tomorrow, our letters will have to be sent to a new address.
































First we have to solve the furniture business, get everything ready...






- Honey, don't say that.





Even the old well!
But the water is bad, isn't it? Not good for drinking?


- Yeah, honey?







Honey, you're not gonna let dark memories ruin our bright future, are you?
Do you have a new dress?




The moth will chew it to the last thread!

And your beautiful smile will stay young, too.

Clifford, honey, never grow up!

Beautiful day, isn't it?


Nature doesn't have bad weather, does it, Gefsiba?





























We need to send for a doctor!



























































Hold your tongue, old... witch.


You're so beautiful in this dress, Gefsiba.
It's a good thing you wore it today.


















First of all, let's get rid of the park.


It's gonna be expensive, Mr. Pinchen, and it's gonna take a long time.


- No, no, I'll start tomorrow morning!

Dear cousin, the Pinchens don't have to leave the house like that.



- Good morning, Mr. Barton.
- Good morning. - Oh, hello, my child.








For the first time. I don't want this little thing to break us up.



I won't go into any extra detail, my dear.










Goodbye, my dear.
























































Yesterday brought bad news.




Everyone needs a close friend...













I'll set up a candy shop on the first floor.

























There's a new page in your life.

































Good night, cousin Hefsiba!
Join the movement for the abolition of slavery in New England."

- Great! The lights will be ready for tomorrow, right, Mr. Wainwright?


Everything's ready to move them to Canada, except for one...

And we're ready to do it, aren't we, Deacon? Yeah, yeah, sure...









- Okay! - Good night, Deacon!


Who would have thought the old maid of Gefsiba would go to trade...



First customer!





























Best news ever.


The new governor commuted his sentence.
- It's all signed, honey...





Can you prepare his old room?
She was always ready.






They need to be fried well, but so they don't burn.




Should I start with the eggs? No, honey.



Then he'll be happy.
It's nice to see you.



You'll always be beautiful to him.
Good morning, Clifford.

Good morning, sweetheart.


Your breakfast is ready, Clifford.




Then look into my eyes and see you're still beautiful.




















How can I say that you're the most beautiful girl in the world without proof-- but the Ferrotype is not lying.









I won't be happy without you. Phoebe, you love me, don't you?


- I'm honored, sir.





First, we need to get this garden cleaned up.












Let fate punish him for a crime.





They say he studied a lot of old documents in prison!



Jeremiah, friend: You're not small, you know what they say!



























Don't worry, my dear deacon, and leave everything to me.
Thank you so much!










I need your advice.









I heard he was in prison studying some old papers...


Old maps, architectural plans at home...

He needs to be isolated.






But honestly, everyone would be better off if they did, wouldn't they?
He's good as it is!







Good morning, ladies!









Sweet cousin, I'm afraid your loyalty to Clifford is forcing you to lie.



He can handle Clifford much better than I could.

I need to talk to you...



















My dear Deacon, I've already told you there will be no news this week.
But I've invested so much!

Good morning, Mr Fuller!













Matthew Holgrave spent the last night in this house.




Clifford, we need to get out of here now!







- I should have told you right away. I'm not free.




- We have to make it before he gets back!










He's my friend, sweet Hefsiba.


Deacon Foster came to you this morning when you weren't awake...




- I need that money!




You knew that money wasn't mine, that I'd need it back!









When I told you there'd be a big profit, you didn't ask me anything else.



















You'd better kill yourself!











Good morning, Mrs Foster. Is the Deacon home?





- I need Mr. Pinchen.






You need a house, don't you?









The authorities are very concerned about your strange behavior in the last few days.
- I want Judge Pinchen!





























































- Don't worry, it's gonna be okay.







Gentlemen, our last night.













Beautiful cultural heritage,


Gentlemen, you can go in there any Thursday afternoon and meet a lot of good guys you've ever met in your life.
















So, you're too good to have a drink with me, aren't you?

Good night, gentlemen.



















































































































I don't need a doctor.
I need a drink!































You know, little cards, bones.
The last thing I remember is that I'm on a train to get into a fight.
































It's a small town in Pennsylvania.

























- Okay.


















I need help.






I'll send a radio telegram to the Habersville National Bank and ask them to send me 5,000 by tomorrow morning to the Whitney Hotel.




I think we'd better go straight to the hotel and see if the bank sent...



















- I'm glad to see you.


Oh, yeah, I'm glad to see you.




Oh, yes, yes, good old Doc.

- I'm much better now, thanks to him.


Yes, good old Hubersville.




- Yeah, I'm glad to see you.





There's one more thing I need to discuss with you.

















- I just wanted to tell you what a lucky girl to have a husband like you.







It's worse than you think.
You need a lot of rest and rest.

I just need to spend a day or two in bed.



I just need to lean on you a little.
Are you staying anywhere, darling?






Nice rooms.

Nothing's good enough.














She wasn't baptized "darling" or "darling," you know.
Okay!
Okay!









Yes, of course, darling.





















Yeah, but you need...






































Couldn't be better, thank you.












- Couldn't be better, thank you.









- Couldn't be better, thank you.





Then we paid 500 for you as the last deposit on a piece of land in Marsh's unit.




The bank was only happy to help you.
































- Thank you very much, Mr. Billings.

- I wish you all the best.












We need to assess the area.




We need to find Duke Sheldon.









- I need her more than ever.

With the divorce, there's gonna be a scandal in a small town like this...


I'm gonna run to Schorhaven and talk to a little woman.









- What do you want?































- Easy, easy.
No, she was married to Rotary and Kiwanis, Lions, Mouses, Losami and the Hubersville Big Committee.










































- Okay, but I'll go with you!











They were ordered this morning.










A few last-minute changes.







Good old bubbles.





Yes, dear, but see, the doctor says I have to drink every 15 minutes.
























It's not the Virginia Cadrill or the other old dance you like.



- Something wrong, darling?

- Is that better?

You know, honey, if we could just slip away for a few minutes,




Honey, I took some beautiful pictures during the cruise.

































- Yeah, I think it's better that way.



Good night, Larry.

- You don't have to worry.


- Good night, Larry.






If it's really necessary...













(OXESTRE IS HIS GOOD BREAST)


Honey.






- Kay, darling.












You seem to be in good shape.






Yes, Mayor, this is my good friend Dr. Ryan.


I am proud and happy to be here, and I would like to take this opportunity to say...
Larry, it's an honor to give you a gift from the Municipal Orchestra.


That's very nice.





Larry, I assume you'll lead the orchestra with your new pipe.

Nice to meet you.










But he needs quiet.















It's gonna be okay.
Thank you very much.



- Yeah, okay.










- Okay!








Look who's running the city, who are the important people.



You better call the Palace Hotel outside and find out if Duke's here or not?






Do you need a special diet?
Yeah, he needs stimulators, whiskey, cognac, champagne.




That's because you're not used to it, darling.





Feeling better?



















Okay.

- Good night, Mamsie!
- Good night.




- What do you want?


- Okay, darling.





Okay.





Okay, okay, I'll make him something to eat.








Last time we drank champagne in this house was three years ago on New Year's Eve when your boss came to dinner.

Kay, darling, you know I want you to forget about the past.
You know, I've changed a lot lately.














- Very, very good.
- That's good, darling.
Okay.



Kay, darling, you know, I know a wonderful game for two, consisting of gentle words and kisses.
I think I'd better drink my coffee.




Well, that's useful, darling.


I think we'd better get this straight.



I think I've had quite a lie to tell society.

























He'll meet you at the post office at 9:30 in the morning.
That's good.





- We'd better get to work.


I need to know the way when I go there tomorrow morning.










- Old model.





























- He wasn't well.

































I'm here, here, darling.










Okay.


It's all set.



- It was fine until I saw you.



You'd better tell me you're still too weak to work.





Wilson! It's good to have you back.

- Okay, it can't be better.



- Nice to meet you.















Not as good as before you left.





There's no place better than home.





Mr. Wilson, I'm so glad you're back.









Good to see you again.






Yeah, very good.






























- I have good news for you, Mr. Wilson.

That's very good news.





- Okay, Mr. Wilson.





That's a very important question.












It's a new policy.
















It creates character and produces better results.




- Good morning, Doctor.
- Good morning, Mrs. Wilson.































I'm sorry, Chief, but something very important happened.





No, no, the last time I went shopping with you, I was at Mother Hubbard's sale.









- That old pillowcase.











This model is in great demand, Mrs. Wilson.





You know, I think I can make something similar in a quick hand for myself out of old bags of flour.


I want something expensive.



Mr. Wilson said he wanted to buy something expensive.


I just want to buy something good.










Now, Mrs. Albermorou wants to buy a new night shirt and get the bill.
Maybe I should call the manager.

I don't need a night shirt.
You're gonna get a new night shirt, even if I have to buy two silks and start from scratch.
















- Isn't it beautiful?




- Okay.


Kay, what you need is tea.
After a busy day shopping, there's nothing like a good cup of tea...





Isn't that beautiful?














Look, Romeo, if you fail, it'll be your last failure.

































I wanted to see how cute you look in a new negligee.

It's very beautiful.






















No, she gently spread out her little wing around him, and sighed,

















You never took me to town with you, and you didn't buy me expensive clothes.
Isn't that a good thing?


You were just good, sweet and kind, as far as possible, and you know it.

















































You think I want to be in this provincial town longer than I need to be?













Isn't that beautiful?













Okay.























He hopes to get a test from you to go to the first class of Rangers.
And Brown and Littlejohn worked hard to get to first grade.










That's great, sir, but what about the deer shooting first?













- That's good for the leg muscles.
- That's good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.

Good for the leg muscles.










Okay.






I'm glad I'm back.




Ranger Leader Wilson, at the last meeting, the Board of Rangers Boys from Hubersville County decided to give you a token of our appreciation.












When I came here this afternoon, the last thing I expected to get was Beaver.













If you succeed in finding Ranger Leader Wilson before the squad catches up to you, then you've passed the final test for the first class Rangers.








Ready, sir?






Yeah, you see, in the first rush of panic, animals aren't smart enough to know that you can get past these bushes.

























Now I'm not moving to the first class of Rangers.














I'd give my best tie just to know the secret.












But you want to go to the first class of Rangers?
Okay, I'm gonna go.











































- Good night, Leonard.
- Good night, Edward.























- It's beautiful.














The state is building a new highway through the suburbs, and you're lucky it's passing through your land.





But it'll bring you a good income, Larry.





































Colonel Sheldon heard about the new road.
A new road?










No, not yet, darling, but I think it'll be soon.

Yes, darling.













Thank you, darling.





One moment, my dear sir.















Okay.





Very good.



Okay.





























I don't need to tell you that your warning saved me.
I was ready to explode.

And Herbert is no better.
He treats me like a vulgar thief who should be happy with the chance that she chose your pocket legally.



- You're too good for this town.
























You said, "Kay, honey,
"Marriage is the best investment two people can make."





















I guess I'd better get back.












So, from now on, I'm gonna be following you, and, believe me, honey, you're gonna know you're being followed.
















You can have a small house with a beautiful garden and a porch.





I'm glad you like it, Doc, because that's what we're gonna do.





























You know, a small house with a few kids and a porch.
And you don't have to dive into the basement every time you see a cop.


You better go get some sleep.













Amnesia came first, Doctor?


































































Honey.



- Larry, darling.















We're in the middle of a big deal!


If you come to my office, I'd be happy to show you a full range of pots.

































- But it's a big deal.































Yes, darling.


Say nasty, and if you really need to.


- Maybe the first husband's ghost?













We were just wrong about choosing our first husbands.


It's necessary to maintain a sense of dignity.
I know, darling.



- Hey, it's for the best, really.



- Honey.






























Yeah, honey, between you and me, it's awful shit.















Who's this cute man?










- Stop it, it's all new!

- That's better.





- Well, I thought your family was respected in Philadelphia, and I'm not the last person. Of course it's indecent, but...



"The congressman kisses her, wishing for a good morning."










Sorry, darling, of course, very much in ours.












































































You were very nice, just throwing it into the ocean.














- Shouldn't we come in from the back entrance?

- Good morning, Edward.


















One, two, a click, and the photos are ready!









- Macoley Connor isn't much better.


He was just a salesman, but still a big bastard.


















































Junioros is fine.
















I'll start from the beginning. Sit down, darling.






























- Quiet, they'll think you're not happy with them.
- I'd love for you to leave.


















It's bad, but there's no way out.























Don't you want to make a good impression?


By the way, the girl's cute.








I know, darling.
Go to them and tell them we're very, very happy to be there.
That's what I call old-fashioned, Mother Lord.





They're so excited to see Junius' friends.












































I'm so glad you came.

- He's doing okay.

- Really, sweetheart?





Sweet dad.



I'm glad it occurred to you.




- Nice camera.






















You must have had a happy childhood.
- Awfully happy.
- I'm glad. - It's symbolic.



But it's not always bad, especially for a real man.

















- This is your first time in Philadelphia, isn't it?








That's sweet.
















We're so glad you came.


You're pretty, my dear.


- Isn't that nice?








- She's so talented and cute. But like all artists, he doesn't know how to do things, completely.


















- How are you, darling?






That's sweet.



Junioros told you all about our happy family, didn't he?


Dear Dad!









Dear Dinah.


Margaret, honey.














You looked better when I last met you.

- Are you okay?

We're so grateful for this beautiful couple.


- They grew up together. - That's nice.













I don't think anyone had a better family than me.












- Uncle Willie, how nice.















Hobson. Okay.
















That's not good.





















- I'll meet you at the pool. - Okay.


"With rich and strong, you need patience."









I've been working on this book for two long years. And she brought me less than $600.


What beautiful places.




She's an artist. She's probably talented. But she needs to eat. Besides, she prefers a roof over her head,..





I think there's everything you need.
Take the old robe, it's full of junk.





I have a lovely little house in Unionville.


And I'd be very happy to know that someone needed it.


There's a creek and a little lake, a very small lake. There's still a forest.
Anyway, I'm terribly glad I can offer it to you.
That's very nice of you, but...




- Good thing I remembered the house, huh?





























You need me.







It's amazing how important money is.

































- Nice story for "Lookin'"!


It was important to understand your essence.



































Red, you can be the best woman.





















































And that's the best thing about you.



You have some beautiful purity in you, like a statue.







Okay, honey?












Run, I'll be ready for your return.












Okay, I'll tell them about it.
Maybe I'd rather do that as the nominal head of the family.
















I think the best support for an aging man is a daughter.
Good daughter.
That's sweet.


- It's very important, I suppose.

Because she's as important to him as she is to women.



You have a sharp mind, a beautiful face, a disciplined body. Anything to become a wonderful woman, except the main one who understands the heart.





Nope. But it's better than being a prude or an old maid, even being married.


















- I'll tell you in the first instance.
My first party.











- And old ladies, too.





















Who's gonna come with me in my little car?



















And don't forget, Mike, you need to be patient with the rich and the strong.












You can't do that to old Junior's friend.
- I mean, with his old friend.





- I feel good.






















I didn't give a shit about all the things that I thought were really important. And now it's going to be...









- Well, okay.













Come on, darling.





























- Very nice.

































































































- Good to see you. Will you help me type?
























Okay, Miss Goddess.











Maybe I should come over.



- Let's get into this.






The best sight in the world is to see a privileged class enjoying its privileges.


















































































Has the mind won again, dear Professor?
Isn't that a good thing? - Is that bad?














































I'm just a good photographer.






























































Good night, Mommy!


































No, a little good.
Good night.













It's very important that we talk.







Since last night, actually, since this morning.











Any bad dreams after the party?






It's a lovely morning, isn't it?

Very good.






- Uncle Willie, good morning.







- Thank you, very nice of you to remind me.






















I'm gonna miss you, darling, all of you.











































And I'm really glad I know.











I'm really glad you're back.
- I'm glad you're here.




Good morning.








Great. Have you seen such a beautiful day?

































- Tracy, honey.

- What can I say, darling?
Don't say anything, especially "darling."


































































- I doubt that very much, darling.




Why are you asking me, darling?







- What, honey?





George, I don't care if it's bad luck or not, but we need to talk before the wedding.

All right, come quickly.

Okay. I said he'd come to his senses.





- No, you better say it.




























Nope. No, I don't need it.
I'm building a new, more practical one.












We're almost ready.
Get up, honey, turn around.

I'm glad we chose him...




Here, he sent you this morning.





Tracy, hurry up or you'll be the last one to come to church.





Well, Red, I'm afraid it's the last hour.

Listen to me." "Dear Tracy, you will remain my friend, "but I have a different sense of morality."

"My attitude towards you... "and the prospects for a happy life together have changed dramatically."







Or else I'm sorry and I'm sending my best wishes. Yours sincerely..."






- So we better say goodbye.
















































- You didn't think very well of yourself.








I wish you all the best!






















Okay.
- Maybe it's for the best.






























We saw George, it's okay.









Good morning.



I mean, my ex-fiancé thinks we should stop in time. And I agree with him.
Peace, you're beautiful!



















- Not for reputation? - She's cute.


Are you ready? - Ready.





































Beautiful song?







One night, a long time ago, I hit a small village.
It was a beautiful, beautiful night.








You have to be careful if there's not much waiting for you.










Nice piece of wood.

We're gonna drown and we're gonna be all set.



Very good.















Little, wooden doll is gonna make everyone happy.


Little wooden feet walking down the path.


My little wooden man.















Good night, Pinocchio.

Good night, my water baby.
Figaro, say good night, too.






How good it would be if he were a real boy.







I want my little Pinocchio to be a real boy.
Really, that would be good.

That's a good idea, but... that's impossible.


After all, a little bit of good.




Little pancake toy, wake up!















Do you need to learn to choose between good and bad, good and bad?





The conscience is the little voice inside that people never listen to.



















And remember, Pinocchio, be a good boy.
Let your conscience always tell you what to do.







- That's good. Sit down, son.




And although good things sometimes don't seem very good, or bad things can be good at a bad time. Or vice versa.

I want to do the right thing. That's good, Pink.










When you get confused, what's good and what's bad.



Always go, dear faithful, don't slip.

Always go, dear faithful, don't slip.

















We need to wake up. We need to wake up.




















This needs to be celebrated.

















Yeah, you should get some rest, too, baby.





























School, beautiful establishment.





Little wooden boy...











Not like that, you fool, you don't have to get dirty.






Beautiful.
























One of the best days.
It's so good to be an actor, 'cause you're famous.

Sleep on the first day!
Nothing... from here to school, he won't be able to get into any big trouble.






























- you have to go to school. - Yes. Pinocchio!








Very well...




















I had them, but now I'm totally free and happy.













I'd rather go with you and you and I will be happy.




He probably doesn't need me anymore.






I'll buy myself a new suit.














This is for you, my little Pinocchio.







I'll be back in the morning.










You'll enrich me, and when you're too old.





Good night, my little wooden bastard.


I need to see my dad!











Jamie, it's so good to see you!










Must be a very old model.












Hold on, son, it could be worse.




At least it wasn't raining.















Two big monsters. With eyes like that.





They put him in a smaller bag.
















I'll be good. Very good.
I'm helping you for the last time.



I'm gonna be rich, I'm gonna be fun and happy.































I'll be good.
- You're gonna be good.






I need to beat Jamie. We're running home.






That was a good lesson for me.

We need to find out what's wrong with you right now.























































Okay, Lempic.






We need to get him out of here.


Ready for demolition. You can destroy anything you want.


Being bad is so fun, isn't it?






Let the bad boy do whatever he wants, and he'll soon be a donkey.
















Okay, Lempic.










He's my conscience and he tells me what's good and what's bad.








Best friend?






















Okay, you're good for us. Sold to salt cops.













The conscience... who needs it.



































































Tie it up better.







Okay, I'll just get myself a rock so I don't get thrown on the surface.
































Oh, wait. Thank you very much.








My poor Pinocchio... he was such a good boy.








Wait, you didn't see... you gotta get your feet out of here... and hurry up.






Monster, open your mouth, I need to come in.
Get more.











I'm so happy to see you!











- It's so good to see you...



My big ears?



All right, let me rub your little wooden head.


I need to come in, you filthy monster.














Big fire!
It's all about more smoke.
Okay, if there's a lot of smoke, the fish taste better.








That's a good idea.



































My little brave boy.











This has to be celebrated!




It's very nice of you to... oh, now I'm gonna have a medal...

















































No, I'm afraid I'm too old for this kind of entertainment.


I heard it was one of the biggest estates in the country. And it's amazingly beautiful!








I hope you've been given a nice room, 'cause there's a lot of room available right now.





Perhaps you could help Mr. De Winter if he needs anything.

























- Oh, don't...






Thank you very much.













- I need to make a living. - You don't have a family?





Yeah, he was a good man.





















Thank you, that's very kind of you, but I'm not hungry.





Well, he's not gonna get any better.












Once, I went to the store and I saw a card with a beautiful house right on the seaside.


It's beautiful in Mandel.


We're lucky to have good weather here.











I need to take this. That's disgusting!




I need my cream.









You should pay attention to Coach. He's pretty damn good. And you can practice it.














This will be your last.
You'd better go to it.












Everyone! All these last days.








You're clouding my past better than all the lights of Monte Carlo.










- Okay, Maxime.













































You want a secretary or something?






I'm not the best match for you.









I've been crying all morning, thinking I'd never see you again.


























I'm so glad you called me, Mr. De Winter.
I had to leave all of a sudden.

But this morning, I got word that my daughter was getting married.







-...isn't gonna make you very uncomfortable.







I'm very happy for you. Where's the wedding going? I'm very happy for you.











- No, no, no. Honey, I'm gonna go downstairs and follow your luggage.
















You'd better go, Mrs. Van Hopper.


Goodbye, darling. And good luck!


She's cute.






- Are you cold, darling?
You don't have to be scared, okay?

You don't have to worry about the house.








Thank you, okay, sir.
It's good to see you at home again, sir.






I've got everything ready for you to come.
That's very nice of you.


All right, sir.








The lady must have her own maid. I hope you like the new layout of this room, madam?



There were old wallpapers and curtains... it was rarely used.



Of course, you can't see the sea from here. A good view of the sea opens from the west wing.




He remembers an old master when Mr. De Winter was still a boy.

And you came back later. I came here when the first Mrs. De Winter was the bride.

I'm not used to this environment. I'm gonna try really hard to make Mr. De Winter happy. I leave you the right to run the house.
Okay. I hope I won't disappoint you, madam.




This is the most beautiful room in a house with a view of the sea.

- Good morning.
- Good morning.


I'm helping Maxim in business. It's awfully nice to meet you.









I need to go with Frank so he doesn't lose anything on the way.
Look around your new house, look at the Times, there's an interesting article about English cricket!





Don't worry, darling, I'll be there in time to save you.
Bye, darling!
- Good morning, madam.






Mandel's a big castle. It used to be a feast hall.



























- Good morning, Mrs. Leslie.





















You shouldn't be afraid of her, darling. And there's nothing I can do about it without your help,






- Very good. Thank you, madam.

- Unfortunately, yes, madam. You need to check them out.






















No, it's worse.










You're so calm.





Goodbye, darling. I'm sorry if we were insensitive.

Thank you, Beatrice, thank you very much. And I have to congratulate you.






























All right. Let's go downstairs and look at him.


















I didn't do anything wrong.







I'm sorry I took your time, but I had to find Jasper.











I shouldn't have come. We shouldn't have gone back to Mandley.





















That's very nice of you.






























I can't tell you how glad I am that Maxim married you.



Beauty, taste, sharp mind. All the qualities that are so important to everyone.
You also have a lot of important qualities, and even more important ones, I'd say.







I think... I think she was the most beautiful creature I've ever seen.





I just ordered a new dress from London.







Very good.






How happy our grown children will be when they see how cute you were!


















All right, sir.

It's your concern, darling. Maxim, I wanted to tell you, but...







I'll go upstairs. Don't be a kid, darling!











First, I need to apologize to Robert.
















I wasn't very nice...










It's a good one, isn't it? And we're happy, aren't we?
It's awful happy!
If you don't think we're unhappy, it's much better if you don't pretend.



If you say we're happy, let's stop there.



Thank you very much. I'll get some sandwiches right away, madam.





No one should see you. Danny, old friend, it was nice to see you again.



- Yeah, we need to be careful.





Are you happy to see me, loyal boy?


Very good.















He doesn't approve of me at all. Okay.

I wish the young bride would wait for me at home, but I'm just an old bachelor.










I was ready to show it to you every day.

The most beautiful one you've ever seen.






He always gave her expensive gifts all year round.



It doesn't matter how long it took. Sometimes they didn't come back until dawn.





That's better.




And good night, Danny, and he went to his bed.























Okay.









Honey, why don't we make a masquerade like it used to be?



Oh, please, darling.





Please! I've never been to a big party.




I don't need Mrs. Danvers' help.
- Okay, my dear.
Thank you, darling!




No, I won't tell you. I'll figure out my own costume, and it's gonna be the biggest surprise of your life!

































Did you come down first?







Open up, darling.




















No matter what you wear, any dress will do.
















No one will ever be better than her, ever! She was defeated, not by a man, not by a woman, but by the sea!

You're not well, madam.




He doesn't need you.























Last time half an hour ago, I thought he was home.



- A little walking boat. - Frank, is that it?





Yeah, it'll bring him back to the past. And it's probably gonna get worse.


Okay, I have to go. We need to feed the people.
Okay, Frank, I'll look for Maxime.













I'll be happy as it is.

But it's too late, darling.

























It was the body of some unknown woman, unknown, unwanted.
































And when I got married, everyone thought I was the happiest person in the world.



Without a shadow of doubt. But I've never been happy with her.
















I'm gonna have the most luxurious balls in all of England. People will come to us, envy us, and think we're the happiest couple in the country.








Of course I do, darling.

























You'd like to have an heir for your dear Mandel, wouldn't you?"



You're gonna have to live with this, Max. Watching my son grow up day after day and knowing that one day Mandela will be his."



































Rebecca's dead, that's what you need to remember.




Now I know what I was gonna say, I love you, darling. I'll always love you.

No, no. She won't win. No matter what just happened, she won't win!
















We'd better avoid publicity, but I'm afraid it's impossible.







You know I'm very good to you, Maxim.
We need to play golf with you sometime.



No, thank you, Fritz. And I'd rather they didn't get caught in Mr. De Winter's eyes.






I'd like to say that if you ever need my testimony, I'd be very happy to do anything to help my family.



- Hello, darling.




Okay, honey, I promise.

Don't worry, darling.




I wouldn't want to, honey.



Okay, darling. I don't care about anything but you.








It was the most important arrest I've ever made.





















Okay, you can go.



















































Were you and the late Mrs. De Winter perfectly happy? Were you and the late Mrs. De Winter perfectly happy?






Okay.




Honey, please be careful.


Sure, don't worry, honey, I'm gonna be okay.






I think you'd better go before Maxim comes back.


But you don't think I'm a bad gray wolf, do you? You didn't know?



You've changed since the last time I saw you. No wonder.
What do you want, Favel?

Things are so much better for you, aren't they?













Aren't you gonna pour some good gas into my car?






To understand everything, you need to read this note.











I'd like to live somewhere in the country, find a good place to hunt.
I don't know exactly how much this is worth, but I'm ready to discuss it with you.
I need your advice on how to live a chorus without working.



I think we should discuss it inside.











- Please, big brandy and soda.



- Okay.



Well, Colonel Julian and I are old friends.









"Jack, darling!


I want to tell you something very important.






You've known Maxim for a long time, you know this old-fashioned guy, he's willing to die for his honor.



















Crowley didn't have much success with Rebecca. But this time you might be more lucky.






Do you need anything else?








You don't need to be here.


























See? That's impossible. She knows it as well as I do.

We know that Rebecca went to see a doctor on the last day of her life.






It's a beautiful name that's spinning in :












He's a cute little kid.




Max knew it wasn't his baby, and like any old gentleman, he killed her.

But just so there's no doubt, I think I should go with you. Okay.




Let's leave the poor alone so they can spend the last few hours together.
Are you sure you don't want me to come with you? No, darling.

I'll be there early in the morning.


Ready, Maxim?









We're trying to gather information about what the late Lady De Winter was doing that last day,



















She was a very beautiful woman.

























I knew she didn't need a sweet lie.




Yeah, in the final stage.




























Let me tell you, blackmail isn't the best way to make money.


But if you ever need a new car, let me know.






















Now, Max and his lovely fiancée will be able to stay in Mandley happily ever after.















It's gonna be 3:00, 4:00 or 5:00 a.m.










Are you okay?






- Good morning. - How's the first one always?
















- Good morning.
- Good morning, Miss Krakek.





- I'll smoke less than a few weeks.
- Good morning.
- Good morning. - Good morning.



- Must be very expensive.

She said, "No, it's expensive," but she couldn't take her eyes off.




- Good morning. - Good morning.




- Good morning! Good, good!
- Good morning.










































Did I say bad things about goose liver?





- Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.

Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.



















-...my dear friend."






Well, I can't afford a new encyclopedia. I started watching ads in the paper, opened the wrong page, and I saw it.





Dear friend, 15th Post Office, subscriber box 237."



























Bad idea.











I need your honest opinion.





























- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Beautiful purse, huh?























It's a good thing you came early.








- I'd love to, but we don't have any vacancies.
- You said you needed help.














With the best customers.







- He's in a bad mood.













Good morning, madam.

- Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.


- I'm glad to hear it!



- You'll find a better product.








- But I need a job.











You'll find out about the first job.












You're my oldest employee.









It was a good night last night, wasn't it?


Well, I'm glad you enjoyed it.




I replaced the last line.



You made a good impression on her.



































Good morning, madam.
Isn't that a beautiful box?




































I need your opinion, honest opinion, nothing more.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- I'm having a big dinner tonight.














Beautiful!
Nothing's better than that!
















I need a big kitchen.





- Good morning.





















I'll call you in the morning, tell you what I'm wearing.
And my tailor will be sending out samples of new outfits.









- Good morning.









- She's the best girl in the world.
Is she beautiful?

- So she's not very pretty?













You see, she thinks I'm the best person in the world.

















- I'm sure she's cute.


- What do you want, a lunatic?



...what I need.

Good morning, everyone.







Good morning, Mr. Matuschek.






I have a very important meeting at 8:30.







Hello, sweetheart.










No, I'm not complaining, but it's quite a lot of money.

Yes. Goodbye.



- Anything important?
- Well, it's important to me.





















- You're his oldest employee.
- Good reason.
























Good letters, right?












- Yes. Okay. Tell me if I do something wrong.
Since when do you care about my opinion?








You don't know how important this is for working girls.


































- I need to, Mr. Kralik.


- I have to go, it's so important!


No matter what I do, it's bad.

If I give you advice, even good advice, you don't listen.




Well, maybe soon I won't have to work here.






Let me think. The "A" window needs three people.




- And you need to leave?






- Okay, you need a special invitation.









Okay, I think we can do this without you.
It's the first time I've asked in years. It's very important.

Need a band to say goodbye?



Good morning, madam.



Thank you very much.


- I'll be happy to help him. - Thank you.



Good morning." Matuschek and Company."





After closing, we're gonna decorate the windows, so we don't have to have dinner with Laszlo.




And you've got the nerve, Mr. Kralik! The oldest employee is an example!








It'll be better to put a stop to it.





Okay.
Yeah, okay, I'll text you right away.




















I think you'll be better off somewhere else, too.


















"He's been the best employee for the last five years."


"He carries with him our best wishes for success in his future career."









I had a position this morning, I had a future.

I bragged. She thinks I'm a very important person.


My dear Kralik, from all of us, we are all shocked and surprised.














































He's not feeling well right now, and I thought...






He was your best worker.




















You know, the last time I was in your apartment a few months ago was when you sent me to get your suitcase.
Today was a chance for me to see your new dining room.











































Good day, Mrs. Matuschek.








Okay.



- Okay.







- There's a beautiful girl!

- Very beautiful. But without a book.












































- Okay, okay.









































































- She seemed nice to me then.


















You may have beautiful thoughts, but you hide them.
You're like an old-fashioned maiden.
You'll find it hard to win the love of men. Am I an old maid?





And when you call me an old maid, I laugh!
You're a useless little clerk!





- It's more expensive than a nervous breakdown?
















Remember the last time you came to my house for dinner, I said,..









When I received the first anonymous letter, I laughed.














Okay.














- No, I'm happy to help.




- When I get better...







My dear Kralik, I would like to congratulate you warmly from all of us!
We're the same happy little family again.




Nice ring, huh?


That's what good boys get-- diamonds!




Now go to the warehouse. You know the big suitcases on the top shelf?

- Yes. And big brown suitcases.






I'm a good soldier.






We need an educated, healthy young man from a good family and no bad habits.



Okay.



















































Okay, I'm glad to hear it.




Okay. - Kralik, that's noble.





I don't mind Miss Novak at all, she's very nice.


She's a hard-working girl and a good salesman, and you shut up!
























Okay.
Okay. Assault and beating.




- It's all set.









- Good morning.
- Good morning.


I'm glad you're back.


















Yes, thank you very much.
Yeah, it all happened this morning.









I hope you'll forgive my intrusion, but as manager, I feel like the father of our little family.

It's gonna be okay, Mr. Kralik.


Christmas is coming up. We're gonna miss a good worker like you.










- No, I don't need a doctor.













- Is the news good?






- Good news?
- Very good!




- Don't be so happy.























And where you say "old maiden," he says, "in your eyes the fire and the mystery shines."


















And when he opens it, what other music does he need?


Yeah, I gotta admit, that's really nice.












We have to work faster, especially on a day like this. It's Christmas Eve.

- No, I'm not! Okay.

I called the hospital, Mr. Matuschek is better.


- Let's buy him a good gift.

Not bad. But the best gift from us is empty shelves and a lot of money in the cash register.
Let it be the best Christmas Eve ever!






- Okay.

































If I had a wallet like this, I'd be the happiest person in the world.




Thank you very much, Mr. Pirovich.
















- Okay. Not bad, huh?















Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, What good prices!













This morning, having received the lovely little tree you sent me, I was deeply touched.

I was very happy that you miss me and hope I'll be home soon.

It's been a lot of my life.

















- Good guy.

























We don't need anyone else, we're so happy.











































- Beautiful. He's gonna love it.
















No, Mr. Kralik, don't start over.


















- In the first few weeks...
I know you don't get it wrong, but I'm having a happy affair.


In the first few weeks, there were moments in the storeroom when you could easily conquer me.






































A very nice man, very nice.











Personally, I think the tummy gives him a nice, cozy look.
That's the kind of husband you want, isn't it?
- Yeah, that's what I need.
























I thought I was the one who inspired him to think so beautifully.












How nice that you're trying to cheer me up.




- Don't do it, it's even harder. - And I'm gonna say, "Clara, honey!"

- Sweet Clara, I can't do this anymore.


Nice friend.
Are you a dear friend?



























- Something important.


Oh, so you think it doesn't matter?









Oh, Michael! That's what you did this morning!





























































We're all glad you got that chance.



































































































I don't need them.







Very bad.














Because it's not your first crime, is it?



















For the first time in court, everyone's worried.






Calm down, darling.










- Okay, I will.

























- That's a good boy.






We find the accused guilty of murder in the first degree.























































The day I leave here will be the best day of my life.








- What do you want?



I have work to do. Besides, it's only 10:00.












If you need to write, write with a pencil.



What do you want?








































- Great, great, thanks. - Very good.




It's a big secret.





One of my best clients.






























Very nice.




I'm glad I came up here.





It's very nice here.












Honey!


























That filthy old fool isn't gonna kick you out.








Sorry, honey.





Forget it, darling.


























































- Wow, he's on the front page!











































































You're the last person I can talk to.
























It's very important.


Please, Jane, I need to get out of town right now!









It's only gonna make it worse.


























Okay.
































































But there's something you haven't taken into account, perhaps the most important.






He's an important witness. Come on.













Please, Mr. McLean, I need a day off.





How can I help you, ma'am? I have beautiful fresh bananas.











All I know is that he's got big eyes on his way out, and he's wearing a pretty long white scarf.





Have you seen a strange man here with big convex eyes, fat lips, and he wears a long white scarf?



Sorry, honey. Thank you.













Okay.









He's so cute, you have to take him with you.







































- Please let me in, we need to call the police.










































I served them every morning.
















Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Wait to meet the new font color - " #e1e1e1" by the singing teacher, maybe he's cool!




Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning!












Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning!








Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - You, of course, Agda, darling.
















Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay!


Font color - " #e1e1e1" - There's a new songbook.





Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning.
Font color - " #e1e1e1" - I'm the new singing teacher.













Font color - " #e1e1e1" - Think of a good name for font color - " # e1e1e1e" for me, of course?







Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, but I'm not very good at tango... font color - " #e1e1e1"




















Font color - " # e1e1e1e" - "Sleep my little willow kidneys..." font color - " # e1e1e1e" - Shh!

Font color - #e1e1e" - Thank you, Abba, darling.



















- Okay... danelle.



















Font color - " # e1e1e1" "Be like us, happy and free, font color -" # e1e1e1" Don't say: - No, all that energy!









The last, font color, is " #e1e1e1" in particular, in Eastern Siberia.













































Font color - " #e1e1e" - That's better!




Font color - " #e1e1e1" - The new singer has been fined. font color - " #e1e1e1"
- And he makes a good impression... font color - # e1e1e1e


Font color - #e1e1e - Why are you so upset, Agda, darling?

Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Yes, but the manner in which she sang this font color - " #e1e1e1" cute song : "B-e, b-e, white lamb... font color -" #e1e1e1 "Bom-bam-biddy-bada-bom-bombom... Swing." Font color - " # e1e1e1" "Come with me... font color - " # e1e1e1e" -...we can talk about this tomorrow.













My dear sister, font color - #e1e1e1 - tried to parade the girl Dunell. Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - But it looks like a man, font color - " #e1e1e1" whose son was in America font color - " #e1e1e1e" and heard the Great Caruso.










Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - It's a good one, worth 15 er.













Font color - " # e1e1e1e" - Be like us, happy and free, font color - " # e1e1e1e" - Don't say: - No, all this energy!
































There's no need for student stories!













Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Singing a pig in music lessons can be fon color - " #e1e1e1" is questionable, but discussion font color - " #e1e1e1e1" exclusion of a little Inga looks like a font color - " #e1e1e1" shooting a gun at sparrows.
Font color - " #e1e1e" - By such a light and small sparrow!









I'm sorry, sir, but I'm so happy.














Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Oh, good of you to come, sir...
























- Okay. It's strictly confidential.








































Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Great, neutrality is important.





Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Sorry, sir, Shorty Suberg font color - " #e1e1e1e" was the first.











The next gymnastic number can be font color - #e1e1e1" beautiful girls of Freken Larson.





Font color - " #e1e1e" - Think better about my words, font color - " #e1e1e1" because I don't throw them in the wind.






















































Font color - " #e1e1e" - "Good morning, Franken Larson... "Font color -" #e1e1e1"

- You say, "Great, thank you." Font color - #e1e1e" - I'm terribly hungry!














- You're not? What's wrong with me?




















Font color - " #e1e1e1" Such a beautiful company... font color - " #e1e1e1e" - I'm so sorry.







He missed the font color - #e1e1e rehearsal, and we have a new soloist.



Font color - " #e1e1e1" - You shouldn't have come at the last moment!
Font color - #e1e1e" Ready?
Font color - " #e1e1e1e"" Ladies and gentlemen, I can imagine a font color - " #e1e1e1e" for you your last little find, font color - " #e1e1e1e" which I'm sure will find by singing font color - " #e1e1e1" a straight path to your hearts.























Okay, you and I, font color-- # e1e1e1 to some degree, in the same boat.


Font color - " #e1e1e1" - I need extra money, Freken Dunell.





















Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Although they're not as good as my guys...


























Font color - " #e1e1e1" - Don't have much hope.



Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Then I'll be glad to see you! font color - " #e1e1e1"






- Oh, I'm so sorry. Have a good day!
Font color - #e1e1e - Have a good day.




Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - And that's why you put on your best dress?

Font color - #e1e1e" Thank you, mommy, darling.





Font color - " #e1e1e1" You know that lately font color - " #e1e1e1e" she comes home late at night?











- Dear Ake! How beautiful to me is the font color - #e1e1e1e and Inga that we have a man in the family.







- I understand... font color - " #e1e1e1" okay, there are three crowns here.






Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay!

Font color - #e1e1e" Let's see... it tastes really good. Font color - " #e1e1e1" Imagine it's mom's tasty food.


Font color - " #e1e1e1" - Bad boy.








I'm sure it's perfect... font color - " #e1e1e1" "I have a brutal appetite, don't seek it, font color - " #e1e1e1e1" if I lick it all to glitter!








Font color - " #e1e1e1" - He's a good defender. font color - " #e1e1e1"








- Okay, yes... font color - " #e1e1e1e"













Font color - " #e1e1e1" "The bull, who was too old!
Font color - " #e1e1e1" - Thank you for a lovely dinner.
































- No, I'm not! I have to sing the Psalms font color - #e1e1e1 with little children.




Goodbye, font color - #e1e1e" my dear... colleague.














- Dancing to a big swing band!














Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Is that very expensive?





Font color - " #e1e1e1" "The little bird that sang, font color -" #e1e1e1" no longer sings at all.











Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Sorry, darling, there's too little here.











- It's beautiful here, isn't it, Ake?

- Yeah, not bad.
















Font color - #e1e1e1" I'm very happy.
















Font color - #e1e1e - Take one big one, Ake.













































But it's so beautiful. font color - " #e1e1e1"










Font color - " #e1e1e1" - I didn't sleep my eye last night, font color - " #e1e1e1" thinking about him.






- You don't have to. I'm going to bed. Good night!






































Font color - " #e1e1e" - Good morning. Is there a director?






Font color - " # e1e1e1e" - Nothing, I just heard something important... font color - " # e1e1e1e1e" - What, exactly?












Font color - " # e1e1e1e" - No, I want a quiet evening! font color - " #e1e1e1"

























































Font color - " #e1e1e" - I also have coffee, a big cup, and a lot of buns.



Font color - " #e1e1e1" - Beautiful place!














- Ladies and gentlemen: little, darling, font color - " #e1e1e1" "Shanhai Miss Linda Loy... font color - " #e1e1e1e" font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Don't stare at him!
Font color - #e1e1e1" - He's so good! font color - " #e1e1e1"






Font color - " #e1e1e1e"... he's my boyfriend forever font color - " # e1e1e1e1" "We have our own 5-year plan font color - " #e1e1e1e1" Oh boy oh boy oh boy font color -" # e1e1e1e1" His clothes aren't beautiful font color - " #e1e1e1e1"

Font color - " #e1e1e1e" "What he wants, gets font color - " # e1e1e1e" "Surely and quickly font color -" # e1e1e1e1" and I know that his font color - " # e1e1e1e1" awaits great success



Font color - " #e1e1e1e1" "In time we will have a cozy nest fon color - " #e1e1e1" with several children, two, and better than three font color - " #e1e1e1" His manners are not so good.





























- He's gonna be okay. What's up with the party?









Font color - " #e1e1e1" I'm saving money for missionary work, font color - " #e1e1e1e" while you're turning my cute students - font color - " #e1e1e1e" - into black savages!



You have such a font color - " #e1e1e1" beautiful music education.







Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, Director...









Font color - #e1e1e" - Little Agda?





























The old maiden is incorrigible.






- I have a plan. Risked... but good!






































Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Is that so important? font color - " #e1e1e1"







































Font color - " #e1e1e1" - We ask for the applause of all numbers, font color - " #e1e1e1" "Dear Moms, Fathers and aunts!


- Don't be afraid... font color - # e1e1e1e - Don't be afraid, sweet maiden font color - # e1e1e1








- You're my bliss, lovely maid of honor - # e1e1e1e

- You disappoint me, lovely maid of honor - # e1e1e1e








Font color - #e1e1e - Come here, sweetheart!
- Be a good bird... font color - # e1e1e1e

Font color - #e1e1e - Count the scoundrel for good secrecy! font color - " #e1e1e1"
















- Now, ladies and gentlemen, font color - " #e1e1e1" I will tear these 10 worms... font color - " #e1e1e1e" in this way... font color - " #e1e1e1e" and roll them into a small balloon, font color - " #e1e1e1e" "Let me have fun"... font color -" # e1e1e1"


Font color - " #e1e1e1" "New 10 worms...
Font color - " #e1e1e1" "Slower, so that you can see... font color - " #e1e1e1" and roll it into a small "ball"... font color - " #e1e1e1" "pretty little" balloon...
Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - I'm blowing a little balloon "font color -" #e1e1e1e" again...





- Are there any beautiful ladies who want to?





Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Why not invite the first lady of the school, font color - " #e1e1e1" to my sister, director?






























- Is that gonna be okay?


- Yes... font color - " #e1e1e1" - What a beautiful couple they make... font color - " # e1e1e1e1"














Font color - " #e1e1e1" - What a beautiful dress.




Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - You asked for it, and I was so happy.






- Oh, honey. But you're only 16.





- Well, well, sweet girl... font color - # e1e1e1e









I had to talk to my best student!
Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, don't mind me!























I need my hat and coat.
Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Okay, take them.







































The grumpy old lady!
Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Yes, old maiden! font color - " #e1e1e1"


Font color - #e1e1e" Remember when we were little?
Font color - " # e1e1e1" "I was a big guy, and you were a little font color -" # e1e1e1" "a beautiful girl...









Font color - " #e1e1e" - as our new music teacher... font color - " # e1e1e1e1"




Font color - " #e1e1e1" - They should sing beautiful old songs. font color - " #e1e1e1"

Font color - " #e1e1e1" - But also beautiful new songs, font color - " #e1e1e1e" also.





Font color - " #e1e1e1" "How beautiful is the sweet and tender font color -" #e1e1e1" "the song of love that you font color -" #e1e1e1e" once sang to me. Font color - " #e1e1e1e" but you're gone, font color - " #e1e1e1e" and I'm left alone font color - " # e1e1e1e1" and I'm just waiting for you here.


Font color - " #e1e1e1" "The little bird that sang font color - " # e1e1e1e" no longer sings font color -" # e1e1e1e" and the song I wrote, font color - " # e1e1e1e1" became useless and stupid.








- But today everything is beautiful and happy!













Font color - " #e1e1e1e" - Ladies and gentlemen, I've come back, font color - " #e1e1e1e" to ask a little school bird - font color - " #e1e1e1" - to perform a very popular song, font color - " # e1e1e1e" which I also loved... finally... font color - " #e1e1e1" Inga, my dear, come out. I think the teacher knows the song.




Font color - " #e1e1e1e" and, by the way, a beautiful tuxedo... font color - " #e1e1e1e"
Font color - " # e1e1e1" "Be like us, happy and free, font color -" # e1e1e1" Don't say: - No, all that energy!

























First time I hit the water in two weeks.






























































Coffee's good, but you can't make money out of it.























Are they burning up good rides?



































- No doubt, son, I'm not the cute one on time, but I don't care about anything else.










































But they sent me three hundred dollars in debt on a new wheel.


















Then I'll tell you what, we need new laws.



































































































It's not gonna make us happy, and this one's not on his own.



- Ready?













What are we doing here for the last three days?



































This is your last flight.





It's not the first time you've driven.































- That's enough for the first time.









It's better at home.


















































This is the last game, the last game, and I ran.


























- We've got to try to beat it.













































It's not my rule to let guests in at 5:30 in the morning.
At this time, the best of the best are settled.


























I'm gonna take care of my stuff.





I'm calm and clear.




Are you happy to meet you? Say it.






You're fucking beautiful.








I forgot the last time I slept in bed.






You need a normal job.


By the way, someone who can buy two or three big cars can make a fortune.







We need to get to the market and get the goods.






























Get out of here. The first was me.

























I used to hit as hard as I did, but I got it, honestly.


































Why don't you come in and see an old buddy?






Well, go for the little one, for luck.









































Okay, I was in town.









And as it happens, he's a good friend of mine.





One day your husband will catch you.

























It's always good to see you.


























I'll do anything if you stay home.












We have a right to a better life.









- It's gonna be okay.























































Did you meet an old girlfriend?

















- How's the good stuff?


- We take fruit all the way and we know what's good and what's not.
- I hate lemons, good ones, bad ones, one hell.

































Let's have more minutes like this.













There's gonna be a good guy, remember, I didn't hurt you.

















It's okay. It's okay.









I'm glad you called.

Cassie, do you believe in love at first sight?



- as soon as we get a new shipment. - Okay, be careful and don't drive too fast.






































And even better, believe me.




















You're kidding me. For the first time in our lives, we're lucky and suddenly he's sleepy.





























Buy yourself a new truck and everything will be the same.














But I'm almost happy!

- That's it, I'm almost happy.



































Only you don't appreciate it, darling.










- How's Ed, ready?
















You need to see our new nest.





Okay, I'll come. I'll just leave early.









Every day new.












I haven't had the steaks since this morning.




































Three hands are better than two, right?
- Two are better than one.














It's the sweetest thing. After laughing.











Okay.






















With each shot, the picture is better.




Brilliant........................................... They're more expensive.



- I don't need any coffee.



















I see you've decided to get drunk like the last pig today.
I'm sorry, honey, but this is the first and last eighth anniversary of our alliance.






- Good to see you, Joe!









Joe, how do you like the new house?














































Who needs a watch in the sun?



Good day, friends.




- Have a nice day.






Maybe you should go back to the house.
No, that's what it takes.















I told you once, and I'm ready to repeat it as much as I want, I work for your husband, and I don't intend to deceive him.





















We've been married for eight years, but Lana is the best in the world.











































































I tried to figure it out, and the more they talk, the less I understand. Joe, I can't do this alone.








All the papers are ready, all you have left is...

You don't need half a big transport company?



I need this. 'Cause without a helper, I'm gonna end up losing my firm.
And you need it because you're not gonna get that chance.








All right, let's do it your way, I'll do it.
I'm so happy, Joe.










We'll set up new routes. We'll buy new cars.








Is he a good driver? - I'm not gonna say bad things about him. But if the road turns where it is, it's a coincidence.







- Are those the new cars you were talking about?
- Yes. I see you have a new car, too.


























- Don't you think it'll be better...





























This friend of yours, Miss Hartley. She's very nice.










I'd love to, but I've got some work to do.
New cars.
Of course. But you can postpone it for the morning.
I've got a lot of other things to do in the morning. It's very important.


Seems like I'm a bad companion if I'm pulling you out of work.





























I called you to a prosperous firm, all set.
I gave you my husband's insurance money to buy new cars.
















































In other words, Mrs. Carlsen, when we spoke to you this morning about your husband's death, your statement was a total lie.














































You were worse than I could have imagined.


























Now, Your Honor, may I invite the first informant, Miss Sue Carter?














































- That's because I have a bad memory.



















I bought a new car.
Yeah, I bought a new car.
A new dress... I bought it.
I'm young, beautiful.




































After what happened, I need a change of scenery.

We're gonna get married, I'm gonna get a new truck on the way.
























Paul stays. He can do as well as I can.




















Did the painter finish the company's new signs?



- Okay.





"from now on, it's called Henry Lounds' publishing case." New line.





Cross it off, leave only the first line.













- She just said she was happy, so you're not removing Mr. Cardew's name from the company's name, even though he's not with us anymore.














Hello, darling.











Okay, let's forget it.



All right, let them come into my office.
















Yes, darling.
Okay.







Although he's good, and I'm not getting younger, I still don't like him.







You know that as well as I do.













- It was a lovely honeymoon.




- And Bill was so sweet.












And we had another beautiful honeymoon waiting for us.



Why haven't we been able to prolong these happy moments?





Then you can explain to me that the honeymoon isn't really important.
But he's very important, Gertrude.



I'm very happy.

And I was happy with Mr. Cardew, too.
Very happy.

And even though we were so fond of my first husband,










Let me do this.
What did the last one tell you?




















































Gentlemen, this is a beautiful world.


























You think I'm crazy too, don't you, darling?

























- Aren't you glad he's alive?
- Of course I am.























God, he was my best friend.
































Honey, it won't be hard.










Okay.





Honey!
It's good to hug you.








- Yes, darling?

- You're even better.












Well, I thought I was dead when I was on that little island.



And Henry was so sweet, Bill.


By the way, Hank, the first time you two met, she said she really liked you.




I don't need them.
Because that's what best friends are for.











You see, Hank, the first night at home in a year.
Why don't you come over for dinner tomorrow?





Sure, how could I not offer my best friend a drink?





- That's good. - You look great.



It's so good here.


Yeah, home, nice house.
















- Bill, darling...

- Bill, darling...










Very good.




















My best friend.




















Honey, don't you understand?



Honey, no.




















And you found a new love.


- No, honey.































You have a beautiful wife.


















- Okay.
- Yeah, okay.






Buddy, if you're ready, I'll take you to the hotel.


- You're ready, aren't you?
















For the last time, are you going to leave?











- Come on, darling.
















Henry, darling, where's your robe you wore before we bought you a new one?




- Honey, did you find him?


















We should all go to bed.

My thoughts will sleep with yours, darling.



Come on, darling.
Good night, darlings.

- Good night.
































- What's wrong with that?

Bad thing is, you're using the multiple.






























"To Bill, the only man I'm willing to die for."

- Well, I'm ready to accept your death.





















- Really, darling?













We're very happy Bill's back home.

- Good night, darling.

- Good night, darling.
Sleep well.
Sleep well!


- That's nice.









- Okay, our wife.














- Will you tell me, darling?




- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.

- Good morning, darling.
Tell me, old sailor, do you always eat breakfast like this?


Tell me, who let you wear my best suit?
- Best suit?








Bill looks like he's wearing it until we buy him a new one downtown tonight.































And we have to be ready for this.









And that our life together, if you choose me, will be as happy as I can.



Besides, our love is the first love, the real one that lives forever.


- Yeah, I guess that's better.

































I'm trying to make the most important decision of my life, and two men are acting like kids.






























- Can you suggest a better way?




















All right, Bill, pull the first one.


You're the first husband.



























































































That's why he wanted me to pull the first one. He's gonna get it with a cross.
















































Okay.













One in the night, only with the memories of our last kiss.

Little shoes.



What did you look like the last time I kissed you?









'Cause it's you, darling, I'm not giving you to anyone!






















Honey, don't say that.





Please, darling.






Hello, darling.






Yes, darling.





We went into a little restaurant near Broadway, and then we went to the lookout.








Honey, maybe you overdid it.

Vicky, I want you to be the happiest woman in the world.

Don't get me wrong, darling.
The months that you were my wife are the happiest in my life, and if I had the chance to live them again, even though I knew they would be followed by my death, I wouldn't doubt it for a minute.
That's so sweet, Henry.



























And the spirit that allows you to continue fighting to the last defeated enemy.
















- Don't worry, honey, don't worry.



Honey, this is the beginning of a new life for the two of us.






Dinner at Frank's with the most beautiful woman in the world.




The tie is the most important thing, sir.
























































- Because we're both good!










- She was a beautiful wife.









After we gave her the best years of our lives.























































They were willing to do anything just to let me say I loved them.
- Dad, it's so beautiful.














If they do something desperate, we better go to bed.
- And call the morgue in the morning.










- Okay, sir.
You better get some rest.






































Anyway, don't worry, I'll take care of it myself.




- Hey, honey.
- Hey, honey.



















- That's nice of you.















- Nice to meet you.









- Nice to meet you.

- Nice to meet you.





Now that it's all in place, why don't you go and do more important things?



- It's a nice house.




























If you've just come to New York and say you're staying at a hotel, what's wrong with that if you haven't been there yet, but you're going to be?


















It's my second marriage. First husband died.































Isn't that nice of him?




- Yes, darling.




Honey!





Isn't it awful why Henry can't be happy, too?













Goodbye, darling.
It's like old times.

- Better here than on the island?







- Thank you, darling.








- You look beautiful, darling.






Bill, Henry is our best friend.



Honey, think of me as a good friend, always ready to comfort your wife while her husband went out looking for adventures.











Do you really think so, darling?







Let's roll while we're dancing, okay?




A day we'll remember. At 11: 15 a.m., the Prime Minister delivered a speech to the nation announcing that Britain had entered the war with Germany.




It is also remade to prepare warm drinks in advance for young children who will have to wake up at night.







This isn't the first time I've been here.
Okay, thanks.




- Okay, sir.

I'll walk. Okay.





- That's very nice of you.







































It's okay.



Maybe it's a better wall.




Better, huh?



































































I think that would be beautiful.













You better have it.

That's very nice of you. The Olympic Theatre.









He's cute, isn't he?












Show the girls, okay? How do you make an apes?



















As you can see, I can't spend the last night without seeing you.






I'll tell you what. If you want parties, officers and stuff like that, you don't belong here, get out of here.



















Our old owl made her write.



- Okay. I'll be there in an hour, okay?


















You're so sweet!









Okay.











What's wrong with that?
Is life bad?


I'm not letting you go now. Life is good, just because it's life.












Okay, if we met in the usual way, we'd just talk about the schools we went to.







Your face. You're very beautiful, very beautiful.



I thought, "Is she beautiful or not?





Ladies and gentlemen, the last dance of the evening.








Beautiful night, huh?


- Okay.








You know, that first meeting reminded me of an episode that was many years ago. You're so young, so lovely, you don't notice years.











Goodbye, dear Myra.







Leave first, please.
Okay.





Good morning, madam.
Good morning.

- With what, madam? With a new achievement.
I'll remind you that you went to bed at 4:00 in the morning, by the way.








I'm glad he wasn't here for a week.




The old owl...







It's a terrible morning for Roy Cronin.























Okay.
But it's better if you, though, wear a dress.























- It's good to be here.
- No, it's bad.



I leave in 48 hours. Isn't that a good thing?


























It's gonna be okay, you'll see.



What is it, honey?




First of all, my dear, I am the captain of the Royal Military Unit.


We need to order an orchestra and so on.






It's a wish that matters.











No, I haven't told you yet. One very important moment.




















It's very important, sir.


























Right. Okay.





So, you need his consent, you have mine.







It's good to see you!


- Okay, sir.


























She's very nice, sir.






















Never while he's alive. Okay. Bring her in before you leave.
Okay.


It's okay. I'm ready to announce the wedding of Roy Cronin Captain of the Royal Military Unit and Miss Myra Lester of Birmingham. England............................................



- It's too good, I'm scared.











They have a very good marriage tradition.




So, darling...

Are we ready?












We'll thank you. I'd love to help, but, alas, that's the law.
































I bought a hat, very nice, and shoes, and a purse.








Tomorrow morning at St Matthew's.
Kitty, I'm just crazy about happiness. - Honey, I don't believe it!


























- I'm so happy for you.






























Honey! He's gone?












She was supposed to be married this morning.



















Good night.































We're eating the last piece!































But I... is that a bad idea?





She's very nice.








But I'm not ready for this meeting!


She's not that bad.





You know, things are gonna change for the better now. I'm just sure of it.






If she asks, take her here, okay?








Are you better, Miss?

You're better, aren't you?




Better?


































































































Men only need one thing, they're not interested in anything else.







We're young and we're better alive!








But it stopped raining, and good!





















Honey, let me see you.








It's over, honey, it's over.




Honey, don't cry.






You don't know me very well, little one. Well, I've been shot...



















Good strong tea.









Honey, you've been through a lot, haven't you?






















Okay.








Honey.












Honey, smile.

Good girl.







Kitty, honey!


He's here, we spent the whole morning together.
















I'm not letting him go. He's so kind, Kitty, so sweet, clean and beautiful.













It's beautiful, it's beautiful.






Roy. You think you're old?











Myra, it's so good to see you again!







Okay.

I'm so glad I'm happy!


I waited all morning, but I went looking for a dog and I was late.












I already told you, Barnes, you tell me something new.









Nice girl.
Very beautiful.

Roy's gonna lose his head by 3:00 in the morning.










There are so many beautiful girls out there from decent families who would love to marry Roy. And the money has nothing to do with it.
I wonder what she wants.














Honey, the first time I saw you, I noticed the fear in your eyes.








Honey, that's incredible, isn't it?




I think you're just gonna be on top of the glory, sweetheart.



















Nice to meet you.





Honey...












My dear, would you do me a favor?




Okay.



You're a great dancer, my dear.
Very good, really!






I'll always be happy to meet you.











They're good, they're solid, they're good people.

They need a man to be hidden by their standards.











You're bright, you're good.

If I had to show you this, I wouldn't have accepted you like this.



Okay. You better get her out of here early before she realizes what's really going on here.






Remember, honey? Candle Flame Club?





















I thought you couldn't be like... a good wife to Roy.










I'm very happy about this wedding, Myra. And I know we're gonna be great friends.

Good night, daughter.




































If I..... leave early in the morning.....and I never see Roy again...


Let's wait till morning.



















Honey, I gave it to you, it's yours.






I'm tired, honey.


Good night.
Goodbye, sweetheart.
Why isn't it just till morning?



Goodbye, my little cry.











She left me this morning.


Since your happy return.









Last night we were together, and she told me she was happy.

First train; took a ticket to London.



Kitty, I need to know what's going on.




I think you'd better know, Roy.









Answer me, will you hold out? It doesn't matter what I find out, it doesn't matter.

All right, let's go look.





Okay, thanks.





Okay, sweetheart.




Okay, thanks.

































It's the worst.



















The first person to move will spend Christmas vacations rewriting 10 times:












I'll be running an annual procession behind the old church during the midnight Mass.
































Maybe he's in a good mood.




For the last 15 days, I'm telling you, it's okay.


How's your little brother?




Katerina's finishing a new doll.
Beautiful doll?
Just as beautiful as everyone else.



So he's pretty small.





Old bandit, this Fu Chu.

















Good old times...









While we were pulling a broth in the granny nests, the big bird suddenly flew into the tent.






























Less fairy tales, more steaks and red wine, that's what she needs.




I'll tell her you're handsome and attractive.
Since my intentions are good,


























I want to give you clothes, good food, a modern house with heating...












I swear you'll be happy.






I need to get used to the name.

We'll be rich and happy someday.




























































We need to get a local warden!
























So you'd better come.






















Look, it's a good opportunity to play the teacher who always pretends to know everything.


































He's a very handsome man!

I didn't say it was good news...







- Good night, Mr. Ramber.
- Good night, Mother Michelle.














It's so good for you...

















Baron needs him.








I'm glad to see that after such a long absence, Your Highness is in good health.





Do His Highness need anything?









And finally, I get it, the guests are good, and the houses are better.

I don't need your approval.


And now that I've achieved this, the best thing is privacy.












I need you to do something personal...







And better yet, the maid will bring it.



Good day, Your Highness.



























Well, now that a mad dog is out there, we have to warn the residents!
















Have a good day.




I came to ask you to find me a new job.










- It's much worse.
- Worse?




It's not good to leave someone who's sick.
You'd clean his shoes every morning knowing you risked finding your toe?
It's not good to leave someone who's desperate.












Dear Santa Claus,



So I'd be very happy if you could bring me...





















I don't need anyone.









































Yes, that's good.




You're a little girl.


People are bad.











Dad, do you need a match to light a cigarette?



It would be easy if all you have to do was be good five times before Grandpa Christmas knocks on the door.














- Thank you, okay.




I brought Raoul a new umbrella stand and some coal for Albert.











How's Katerina, your little protégé?





After you left, I thought it would be my last Christmas Eve.







For my first Christmas dinner, I want to dress nicely.
He won't be the last.
Yeah, first and last.











The castle has old closets full of beautiful dresses.



Do I have to tell you to be sure?








I'll point out that little Renee...










Everything's great, ordinary trinkets, competition, old rumors...
So, to reward little Raymond...










I have to move on.












Good night, Grandpa!

































You're as beautiful as the first time I saw you.







Which could be better than a glass of champagne to cheer you up.











Did you meet my old friend Fu Chu?












A good story never lies.




















Ready?







So... who was the last person to be seen near the boat?






































After everything I've done for you, you don't have to make a fool of me.








































If we start with the house he visited, we just have to follow his tracks in the snow...





















Very good.












































































































It's important!



Okay.


























I tracked Cornuss' route this morning.






Robert, you have to take the subconscious into account!












A foreigner couldn't play Cornuss so well!

















































I need four people to come with me.







First one who comes closer, I scratch.

































- Okay, we're going to the castle.




And yet, this morning, we found all these toys...
















That's so sweet...


















































The first person who comes in will get...


























Very good.

















































































- My little Christian is dying...






I should have listened to you, but the medicine is so expensive...


I need to order medicine from Grenoble... in three days...










Just a pharmacist in a small town who knows his duty.






















We don't need those speeches, we're in a hurry...





- Okay.

- Very good.











- I have to go...



I should've shut them down.



















We have to go.
















That's cute!




You were willing to die for what you wanted. Like a child who doesn't deserve to live, and yet you live.









Whatever it takes to be happy.


And one very beautiful princess who slept in her chair...
She slept for a long, long time, and while she was asleep, she had a dream, the same beautiful dream that one day a beautiful prince would wake her up.


That's how you play.
Someday, you'll all be great musicians like me, but you have to train.

















"The last will of Hiram Phelps-- half his store goes to his protégé, Tommy Rogers."


















A new conservatory.
A new conservatory!

I'm gonna build a conservatory that we're gonna be proud of, wide windows, big audiences... and they're gonna be soundproofed.
































Martha's gonna be a beautiful bride and I'd put myself in the groom's shoes.















The treaty looks almost ready.
























- You'd better see your aunt right now.









Maybe you're taking things a little more seriously than you need to.
No, if something happens to you, I'll be the first to be accused.







Tommy's best friend.
Your best friends are the police.








































And I was terribly worried about your protection.





We need your protection.







- It's a new model of a flying machine.



























- I was willing to pay $500.
- That's enough for now, I'm ready to take it.



Beautiful.










One more important thing, Mr. Flywell.





Okay.


I could have sworn I shaved in the morning.









Oh, honey.














Hey, wait a minute, you need to fix this door somewhere else and get all this trash out of here.







Yeah, I wish it hadn't happened, that's all.
I wish the boss hadn't caught you here.





If you mean your last record, we sold the last one yesterday.


New record, huh?

Do you have Tommy Rogers' last entry "If it's you"?






Madame, I'd be more than happy to make one for you personally.


With your best wishes.




What's so great about a guy who writes songs and runs a small band?


















Okay, if you want to.



























If Miss Phelps weren't my fiancée, I'd have quit and gone for a good one.


- You mean the cultural woman is beautiful, money and wealth will marry this impostor?






- Okay, how are you?










All right, keep $5.







I felt Tommy needed a trained detective for security, so I...












Her walk is as beautiful as...












Wolf, where did you even learn to write such beautiful poems?



All three aren't so bad at love, are they, Marta?



I wouldn't be happy here.





- Well, I think you're beautiful.

- You think I'm that good?






































































This handsome little tramp brought him back, and he was accused of being a thief.



We won't need detectives at the store if he's around.
Very good, Mr. Flywell, you have blanche cards.
Okay, I'll take him.








You take care of the first floor.













On important business, my lady wears to look original.




It's a light red dress, but it's very expensive.
This coat from Eton is the last fashion of the Indescribable Quality, the only fabric that no cultural moth has ever eaten.

That means I need to work fast.






I told him you were an important music critic.






























































I don't need it at all.






We were here until 5:00 a.m. We've been looking at the reports.


He has an important meeting at 10:00.






































We want to see something new in bed.













I have what you need.










Giuseppe, the best grape-pressor in all of Italy.




















It's a beautiful bed.








Okay.
Okay.





Okay, okay, okay.






























My dear, statistics show that we need at least $5 a week for a baby.






















































































I think he's a great guy, and I'm really happy for you, sister.

- Okay.

- Good morning, Mr. Grover.
- Good morning.









- It's gonna be done in the best way possible.
























































It's always hard for me to imagine how important we are.





Beautiful.
Then I want to show you a little trick.



- It's a new department.














- On the first floor.
You'd better come with us.






Okay, we'll forget about it this time.



















We're ready to finish the case, Mr. Rogers.





Workers can meet new owners.


We can invite the press, get more publicity.


- It's beautiful.








I have a good idea.





That's too bad.










If you hurry to sign, we'll write the first issue about you.

















Martha, darling, there are many commitments that will bind us forever.





Maybe there'll be a little baby.

Tell me, Wolf dear, will we have a wonderful house?


No, but I'm afraid that after we get married and pass the time, there's gonna be a beautiful young girl and you'll forget about me.


Is everything ready?








Today, the front page is mine.



























- What a lucky girl.






































- I think it's best to give him this picture.
























































- Okay!
Okay!




- Okay.









Okay.





That wasn't my best picture.













Tommy, whatever you do, it's okay.











I think you'll get a check in the morning, old man.











He's beautiful.

































































































We're gonna bring you a new one.


















For God's sake to the kohs, sir. The first Cossack I see, I'm gonna cut the head off with this cable.






















Dear death, I came to you.







As soon as Krivonos gets his foot on the Sitch, Hmelnitsky's gonna start a new order right away.





























































































- You know, the first failure...


















































































































And if you don't cut the lashes well, you'll all go to the hyena of fire!







What did the old Shaitan teach you?






























No, I'm ready.




















































He asked the Cossacks a lot, but they wouldn't remember, the old Dniepro spilled like this spring.



















Under yellow water for the first fight, we'll drive the pans and lechs from Ukraine all the way to Rigla!




















Tell the Getman where the woman is, they're not happy.







































































That's when the frogs are gonna put most of the guns in that forest, and we're gonna hit the back and cut the guns off.












Listen, Hmel, is the price high on me alone?



Come on, Hmel, make fun of the old Cossack over the lads.


Why the hell am I giving up on you here?



- Old!






































I have given the word of honor to Mrs. Elena that the first bastard to be seen by my eyes, this sword, I will blow my head off!





























Last to fight!




























Oh, be calm, Mr. Stefan has destroyed Khmelnitsky and will be here soon.





If my guests want to, I'll show you the first two prisoners.


































- Okay, monsieur, okay.






























If you were burned with fire like the old Tour, you'd sell all of Poland!






























































































































































































































































































He served God's first service, and on the same night he drank a poppo raspberry, which would be a pain in the ass.




















Nice kazak!
Nice kazak!


























































































For the last time, the great heart, the treason of the slain.




















































You taking someone important?



































But before I announced the next number, I wanted to make a little announcement.



It gives you girls the opportunity to make me the best offer in the next 72 hours.

I have a better idea.




Last time I saw Joan, she was blonde.








Tell me, darling.



If anything, it's good.


For you, the weather comes first, and the father comes second.







- I've already announced the number, darling.










Well, good. Very straightforward.







Chicago's fine.




Come on, darling.









We need to heal.










You've been engaged to three different girls in the last six weeks.






- But, darling, I can't at all.














You'll blow up all the first stripes from the coast to the coast.



But, darling, Father for Chicago.






- If you think it's better this way, darling.
"With you, darling, out of time..."









All right, Mr. Keenan.
We'll be ready.













When a dog gets hurt in a movie, I cry first.

















Hi, honey.







"Hey, honey.

Tell me, when are you gonna get new pictures of your kids?

I need their current photos.














You'd better change your tactics.








This is Tommy Keenan, I'll tell you all the latest sensations. ...and all the gossip of the West Capital of the World.












...the young fell in love at first sight.






































































- Now, darling, let me talk to him.


















Yeah, and that's too bad.













I'll deliver your daughter to you tomorrow morning in Amarillo at 8:00, single.



















Better do it... in Amarillo.

Okay, $10 a pound, no matter how much it weighs on delivery.
Beautiful.

Okay.





I assume you need a plane to follow them?
- Exactly. - Okay.



But I need the keys.

You must have smelled profit from the first minute you were born.








- Okay.















The total weight is important to the plane, you know.

- Okay.







And they said it was very important.


You'd better fasten your seatbelts...





It's very important.













































It's my first job.


















Even for the kidnapper, it's a very bad joke.





















You'll find out in the morning anyway.
I made a deal with your father to take you to Amarillo in the morning.










Do you think I need money for myself?
They're so cute.


That's sweet.
Tell me, Mr Collins, could you do something big and beautiful for your children and wife?




Sounds like a good offer.











- Aren't they beautiful?

Okay, I'll give you 3,000... 4,000.






You'd better get some sleep.
We'll only be in Amarillo in the morning.













































One of the best...
















'Cause it's just a little formality...





But not in the nightclubs where I spent the last few years.
Mr Collins, under such circumstances, I think it would be better if you slept where I can see you.
































Beautiful, well-fed woman.


Here... that was the last one.
Better sleep on your side.




Two would be better.





All right, whatever you want.

















- Are you ready?














































I don't want to start a new piece of ham.


Old mine tunnel.






- Nice to meet you.

Pop is the first name I remember.





I don't need a mix-up...


































- We're having a little love fight.







Joan will be happy to help you with the dishes, Pop.
Bye, darling.



- You hit him first.




There's no big difference between kidnapping and marriage.






















We need to see if this piece of shit is gonna start.

What's new about Miss Winfield?























You stupid, fussing, pompous, old fool!






















Look, Pop, I spent all morning fixing your drandulette, and now you want to waste my gas too.













Different bad guys cooled their heads here, but the kidnappers weren't here yet.











- Okay.














Isn't it beautiful?
I feel really important.
If they're looking for you, they should spread out to cover a large area.





























- Not if I get there first!





The last bottle I opened was in 1919 when I made a toast to the dry law.















Are you ready?

























I'm fine here, thank you.




Okay.































- To the last brick.
















You'd better stay here and dry yourself while I check the next tunnel.
You mean the last one.































- Okay, eggs.















Last time I kissed...



















It's a very nice note.




Okay.

Hey, wait a minute. I haven't left this town in 40 years.







- You have as good an imagination as I do, Sheriff.











Okay, we're gonna take care of this plane so it can't fly.




Now you better get some food for Joan.








If she weighs less than 115 pounds, I'm out.


















Beautiful soft pillow for you.














I dreamt I was having dinner at a beautiful table, but I was chewing too fast and choking.



Yeah, better.







The waiter just brought a big chocolate ice cream for dessert.
That's too bad.

I was almost ready to invite you, too.






























Hi, honey.





You mean my first or second wife?

This is my first wife, the mother of my children.




























Hi, honey.







And now I'm glad I tricked you like that, because I'm free, independent and ready to get involved.








































Joan, my dear!
Honey!

- Don't worry, darling.









Joan, darling. We brought the Justice of the Peace from Las Vegas.







Yes, darling, until your father showed up.






But, darling, a wedding is very fast.


























- Okay.


- I'm a bad company.








"Love is beautiful." I quote that.





All the financial company needs is compensation.

There's an urgent need for an idea.
















But, darling. Didn't you hear what he said about my voice?



I have $30 million.....and you can't find one small town in the desert.

















Give us a beautiful, clear, dirty "fight.








Beautiful Sunday strike!














That first hit wasn't bad.







































































- It's a great choice.










I need music.












Okay.












No, I think it's better here.

No, I'd rather go back to the old place.





















I'm gonna have a great wedding.
And I'm gonna be fine in marriage.




I can never find the right page.































You don't need representatives from Nevada.




It's not what he said that matters.








I'm sorry, Miss Winfield, or Mrs Bryce, but this is Nevada, all I can do is congratulate him on a beautiful right hook.




Let me know first when you get divorced.








- Okay, Riley.










And my luggage, okay?





Come on, darling.






















All set, Mr. Bryce.













- Come on, darling.
- Okay, honey.
Honey?






Honey, I'm as happy as you are, but I can control my emotions.

Honey, I can imagine what the first wedding night should be like.








Okay, I'll tell you!









I hope one little kiss convinces you of everything.

Allen, darling!





























































This morning, Joan married Steve Collins, the pilot who kidnapped her.








Okay, son.






Today, this palace in Florida is the largest private domain.






Since the pyramid, this is the most expensive monument a man has built for himself.




























16 years after the first marriage, two weeks after the first divorce, Kane will marry the singer of the Trenton Theatre in New Jersey.



However, his newspapers had a great deal of weight.
He was followed by the country's best men, who ran for governor in 1916. The White House was the next step in his political career. But suddenly, a week before the election, a shameful deafening failure.

Then, in the first year of the great depression, Kane's newspapers close.







Are you glad you're back?
I'm always happy, I'm an American.

















- That's a good one. - You just have to find the angle of vision.


It's not enough to say what a man did, wondering what he was like. I need a perspective.

Remember Kane's last words?


It's a big American.

His last words were...









- She didn't come first.
































Okay.



































- I think we should tell him.




















Everyone's gonna think I'm a bad husband and father.

- I hope it's all for the best.





























Sure. When I was a little boy...














He's got to get a good kick out of it.



And Happy New Year!



































Dear Wheeler, provide the poem, I'll secure the war.










I like you. C.F. Kane's a fraud. His newspaper needs to be driven out of town.




I'll tell you another little secret:











You're old enough to call me that, Charles.
You're old enough to call it something else.
Always been old.
































Mr. Berstein, we thought if we heard about his last words.

























That's the biggest moron I've ever met.
He made a lot of money. It's unbelievable if all you have to do is make a lot of money.

He didn't want the money.

You need to see Mr. Leland.





With me and Mr. Kane, he's been working at Inquirer since the first days.












Our new theatrical critic.



















My little office is at your disposal.














I'm a bad cartoonist.


- I'm hungry. The first page of the Chronicle is about the missing Mrs Silverstone.







There was no big news.
Mr. Carter, if there's a big front page, there's news.
















Thank you very much.


Read the details of what she wrote "The Chronicle" this morning.








The Inquirer will be as important to New York as the gas for the lamp.




When you make promises, you have to hold them back.












- Put it on the front page.



- Okay.


I think he's gonna be a very important thing.


Like the Declaration of Independence or the Constitution. And my first reporter card.

"Cronicle" is a good idea for the paper.
























Kill me while I'm happy.



Isn't that a good thing?



























These are the best people in journalism.











The good news is, he promised not to send any more statues.



















I have a little announcement for the Social Chronicle, just like any other.












































You don't have a good cigar? The doctor wants me to quit smoking.


























We were talking about Mrs. Kane's first.

Very beautiful, but Emily is prettier.



- You're beautiful.
Very beautiful.




Why do you have to be in the office?


Even newspapermen need to sleep.








Emily, darling, your only opponent is my Inquirer.
It's better to have a competition of flesh and blood.



He's still Uncle John and a big jerk. Who's running his administration?















All he wanted was love.











On their first night, according to Charlie, she had toothache.













Thank you very much.














Two years of college for boys.






























































I have more than hope right now.









My first order as governor will be to appoint a district attorney to charge boss Jim Gettys.







Beautiful speech.


Good night!
Good night!


























































Good night.







You have to think about other things.







I'd say it's a good lesson.
But you need more than one lesson.




Not a corrupt politician fleeing the latest crimes! Gettys!





- Good night.





Good night.




Good night.


















When the unprivileged class really comes together, and there's more to it than your privilege, I don't know what you're gonna do.









- What? You need a crime reporter there.


I need you here.

- All right, go. Thank you.



















- Is there an article about music?





Hello, gentlemen! The turn's ready.
- The front page review?


















"Miss Susan is adorable, but hopelessly incompetent. Yesterday she opened a new opera theater with a play..."













I need to finish it.






































It's more than the opera theater.









- Okay.






I probably shouldn't have sung on our first meeting.






























It's okay, honey.












































The sedative was written in a large bubble.





Good night.















































And who wants it when you have your own apartment with a good bathtub?





















Tell him I'm ready.










































































- If anyone needs it.


























































Turn off the sun, darling.









There's only one last obstacle left.
- Are you ready, darling?


Oh, you can't publish it, darling.











That's a great idea, but it's hardly realistic.





I think New York is a pretty nice little town.




He's also calm.












Bye, darling.

Thank you, darling.







Bye, Bart. Nice to meet you.


Goodbye, darling.









That's what I need.

We have a great understanding.




Oh, don't report me today, okay?












It was supposed to happen at first sight.


















Oh, Bart, I'm so happy. I'm probably gonna cry.



Okay.


These old Vienna waltzs are driving me crazy.




Okay, then Miss Jones, if she likes it better.


But I told you, there's no... okay.










Honey, you've done a lot already.















Okay, I'll call you that.








Anyway, they want to see you at the department in the morning. I'll come.
When do I have to leave the country?
With the first ship.



It won't do you any good.

Okay.













































































All right, Johnny.
I'll call you in the morning.















































You'll feel better.





















All you have to do is make up your mind and stick to it.


You need the willpower to become a tramp?



How is he better than me?




























That's my last one.















































Was that really the last ten cents?

So if this is the last ten cents and you don't have anyone... then I want to go to you.

It's good to see you.










Okay, if you insist.

Well, that's very nice.
Well, just a little room. And dark.


Oh, that's even better.









































Miss Jones, I don't need a wife right now.
But you need the money, and I thought we could make a deal.




Why do you need to get married so urgently?

















There are things like eating, paying for a room or fixing shoes.









Okay.












Okay!



Okay.





Okay.













Okay. Laundry.











Okay, four and a half.












Okay.


Okay, I'll keep the tapes.
As soon as I'm successful, I'll give you back every cent, okay?
Okay.



You know what you have to do tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning?


















Good night.












We need to give her some time.
A little time, that's what she needs.











That you'd be even more beautiful today than you were yesterday.

They're happier than I am.


One more minute, and it'll all be ready.



















We can get married in less than two months.
























It's very nice of you to have made this extraordinary visit.











Okay.










Do you have new perfumes?








But if those words are good, I have the right to say them.


I think I should go.






















If you agree, it should make me very happy.







Why do you think a divorce would make you happy?




All right, Johnny. I'll give you a divorce any time you want.





Okay, goodbye.
























It's better this way.






I'm serious, Bart. He's damn good.
Of course, the book isn't finished, but the first chapters are definitely talking about a new talent.


It's about a beautiful refugee from Vienna who marries a man she's never seen before to stay in the country.

You said about a beautiful refugee from Vienna?
Yes, darling.










I think you need to meet him.






Nice to meet you, sir.













That's very good news for me.








Quite suddenly, the first novel based on personal experience.














I think he's very important in this story.


Oh, I'm sorry, darling.



















Happy ending.







She's a beautiful, attractive young girl. Right, Mr. Smith?





Just because a guy's nobody now doesn't mean he's never gonna be anyone. And I certainly don't think she'd be happy with someone else.


And definitely not old, no.
In fact, he only reached the best years of his life.








She's not gonna kill herself for an old messed-up monkey just because of the money.


Beautiful character for you!








- Sorry, honey.

It's very important to me how this story ends.

I think it's important to my husband, too.






I wanted to get to the bottom of this first thing.




Wrong line, darling.






That should be a good incentive for you to continue.
Oh, of course, and more. I'll be able to design everything for a happy finale now.
Thank you very much, Mrs. Kendrick.

I'm sorry I'm running away right away, I have to do something very important for me.































No, darling.


Goodbye, darling.




Beautiful.
Much better than where I got it.
First door to the right, sir.



- That's a good idea.
You have a nice apartment.


















That's beautiful!
It's a great luck, of course.

You better start packing.










Beautiful.



It's great that a couple of strangers got married, but they need to get to know each other before they get divorced.











I'm offering a new one.



Okay, I'll do it for you.






That's better.
Do you need this?





That's why we need to meet.




Here. Much better.




Oh, you're so beautiful!

Beautiful.



Damn it, it's beautiful, driving around town in the spring... with your wife.




Crickets sing you a lullaby, and birds wake you... at 6:00 in the morning.












Okay, I'm coming.




Good to see you.








I need to call New York.

- Your best.


It's very important.





































Oh, buddy, okay.

You don't have to.












- It's so good here.
- I'm glad you like it.

Wait here a minute, okay?
















What kind of manners make you wait for such a lovely girl?







In short, Johnny. That's better.



You're cute, aren't you?


If a man is nice, you say so.





Oh, how beautiful!













- What a beautiful house! - I'm glad you like him.














You can't argue with those old words.
I suppose they're old because they're telling the truth, and that truth is absolute.







It takes a long time to realize it's true.





That's good, we're hungry.






Tell Martha we're ready.

Charlie's the best employee in the state.









Don't worry about it. Johnny's good now.





Start the meal with a good prayer, Johnny.
And finish her up with a good brandy. And then it's gonna be good.












My new embroidery - remember?


















One simple thing is important, Johnny -- some seeds on good soil, rain and sun to grow them, wood for fire, when snow comes, night, like this, of course, a few good neighbors -- all will fill people's hearts with courtesy, loyalty, honesty.





Good night.
Good night, Grandma.



You'll be happy here.

I still feel happy.


















It's great that a couple of strangers got married. But they should really get to know each other before... before breaking it.






Here's a new one.






Well, I thought I'd ask you.
Good night, Bill.
Good night.




You know, there's a lot of windows in old houses.
Yeah, there's a lot of windows in old houses.
It's a very beautiful view... from here, from the window. Yeah, I know.







Yes, the fireflies are very beautiful.
I'm glad you like them.
Well, you don't need anything else?



All those little lights, they really mean something.










Good night.

















I just wanted to say that you were very nice today.




Good night, Bill.
Good night.




































I haven't had a chance to write anything, but you'll be happy to know that I've taken an important step... to bring it all to a happy ending.

Yes, sir, and I think everything will be fine. - Oh, you think?






What does he want, Billy?
I want my fiancée Johnny!








And you, you unworthy old drunk, this isn't a road saloon! Throw him out of the house, Billy!










Now, Mr. Kendrick, what do you want from my wife?




I've dedicated the best years of my life to this girl.
She can get whatever she wants in the world! Okay.















What a woman! Okay.
You'll get your money back to the last cent!













Therefore, this Sunday morning in the great year, the thousand eight hundred and eighty-seventh, we think about life, as exemplified by our beloved Queen Victoria.










Do you think evil has retreated? Ask these bums when was the last time they saw old Lucifer?






- After the explosion, it gets worse and worse.








Maybe we should go down to the station, sir.
























My dear, I'm a modern man, but I don't think Harry should show his feelings for you in public, even if you should get married.







Look, I didn't have the best chance.

Dear Jekyll, we admire your work. And perhaps this case illustrates your research.























Dear Harry, there are rumors...



Is it that bad? John, my friend, I get it, Dr. Heath is right.











Besides, Miss Marley's butler told me their new first-class chef, sir.





When the owner of the best London salon chews you, it doesn't hurt.
















Beautiful. Let the soul be.







I'm ready.









Before that, he was a model family man. Sweet and kind with children who love their wife.

- Oh, my God! - Yes. Okay, Harry, we understand the shock he's had.








Okay. Let's just say that.















Dr. Cortlain, the latest theories are always against medical advice and royal doctors.





















































You need this.





















You're so sweet.



No, no, it's a good thing you stopped.






That's it, that's great.

What a gentleman would refuse to help a beautiful girl.




If you're on the street tonight, it's better if you don't come back alone.















You'd better take your blouse off.
















Glad to see you didn't get hurt.










Doctor, how beautiful.



It'll all go away in the morning.
















Fine, fine.














You're a girl with a big and kind heart, perhaps too generous.
Considering that you're beautiful and nice, another time, be careful when choosing your companion.












Goodbye and be happy.











Maybe it's for the best, Doctor.


















It won't cost you more than a week ago. Then no one ever heard of a comet. And those guys know what they're doing.















Are you okay?










No, no, it's okay, Poole.

Old friend, Mr Hyde.

I see, sir. All right, sir.





All right, sir.























It's a good thing I worried about you.
















Come on, darling. Dad, I've never disobeyed you.


























They say there's an interesting new performance in the musical hall, very funny and very brave, if you understand me.









































Maybe it's better than champagne.









Sure thing, darling.























I don't say goodbye, darling.






You just deserve better.
























































You little savage.





Wait, I have to go home.































































































- Nice stuff.

That's really cute stuff.















































































I know what we need.





The song is so cute.






















Good morning, sir.








Your breakfast will be ready in five minutes.










We don't need anything.



























































Sir, I... show her that you're happy.



In a good mood, sir?

Sir, you should know how happy I am.



















I need help.



















I'm not as... not as bad as you think.



Right, you're such a good and kind gentleman.





































Dr. Jekyll, my best wishes to the future Mrs. Jekyll.


















No... no, I don't need him.


You need Dr. Jekyll.













































































I'm a friend, an old friend.
















For the last time, Lenion, let me go.

Well, that's fine.

























I know, it was definitely important.





































Beatrice, darling.



























































You need someone named Hyde.









































































Happy birthday, honey...
Honey...





Happy birthday, sweet Jambo.












- What a lovely angel.



Isn't he cute?













Anyway, who needs her precious Jambo?







































Let's put on a big tent.
Don't be lazy, you have to work.



Follow the tickets with the big show and then the sight of the century.

It's unique, it's the best program in the world.









The best horn in the world! - Hey!
















You're right, darling.



It's true, darling...



































Do you like to make fun of little ones?



















That's better.




Well, Dumbo, I think it's pretty ears.









Look, Dumbo, we gotta figure something out.



































An elephant with big ears.
The world's most powerful little mastodon, Dambo!











- Tuffy's useless. ..of the heavy, strong, beautiful, thick.









Dumbo, it's almost done.

It's okay, it's okay, it's okay.


Okay.




We need to come up with something fast.





And now you're gonna see the smallest elephant in the world who's gonna jump off the ramp to the top of the pyramid with a flag. The great culmination.







Who would have thought a big tent was gonna collapse?











Okay, well, they made him...









































You're great and amazing.

You need to wash your ears.

























From the top to the heels, my baby, you're the best in the world, my baby.
No one's worth more than that.
There's no one nicer.



























Let's go to the big boss for the big money.
Let's go to the big boss for the big money.








































































- Ask them what they want.









































































You're so big, you hurt a poor little orphan.




Only because of the big ears they call him a freak.



No one needs him.














































Better than a plane.

















Magic feather with you? Okay.









































Bad.










We need money.






































Thank you very much.










They better shut down the company.





You're a beautiful girl.
Too pretty for a bus like this.


















Okay.























If we did that, things would be better.






Okay.











- Okay.




































Okay.























Okay.




I'm so glad.



We need a specialist.
That's not good.











He's good.




Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to welcome you to Kohoku Bus.












But talking about sightseeings is a good idea.




"This is Koshu's old street."


"In the old days, this place was called Vado-no-hara."















Your bus is old and squirming.








The best Japanese teacher is radio.

But a light accent is even better.

The locals hit the first syllable.

And that's good because it adds color.





Thank you very much.




I don't need money.





























Yeah, that's better.




Thank you very much.



I'm very grateful to him, but I still have to run the tickets, open the windows, and close the windows.



















We need your opinion.










It's the first time I've heard of it.









Thank you very much.





Thank you very much.
The boss is in a good mood today.








Ah, that's good.














It's a small sum.















Much better.



















































































That's too bad.



















































This is a great opportunity to clean the bus.














Okay, that makes me feel better.


Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pleasure to welcome you to Kohoku bus.





That's good.



I'm very happy.














I'm so happy.


























Thank you very much.
We missed the first part.









This bus is too good.


















Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,







Everyone's happy.















I'll do it best to fasten your jacket. Correct your butterfly.



I don't want any trouble.








We want our clients to feel like they're part of a happy family. We want our clients to feel at home.

























And my little shadow.










- Okay.





If they say, "It's too expensive," say, "Talk to the manager."



I have a table to serve.


If I want to be a good waiter, I have to remember that.












I present to you three beautiful performers of these wonderful songs.































No, thank you.














The soup is very good.
I don't care how good he is!










All right, get her some soup.





I'm so glad he's not your father.






- Okay.




















Meet my best man, Mr. Bennyster.











- Okay, darling.



















- Okay, then I'll find another partner!





















































Okay, Chuck, I'm gonna work hard... but I don't intend to be a refueler for the rest of my life.




- Okay.




- Does that mean it's more expensive with ethylene?
























Okay.
















Would you like to buy some new tires?

When you stamp it completely, you'll get a new dish.








































"I hereby bequeath all my belongings... to those who were with me at the last moment when the light was out in my eyes."



























Meet me tomorrow at 8:00 a.m.








Look, Chuck, we don't need a driveway. Besides, it's far from the highway.

- Everything's fine.
It's just, when you need a move, you want a gas station!













































































- Oin sip, okay.


- This morning.




People need vitamin C. Take that girl.

She'd be better off with a few eggs and a glass of juice.



Oh, is this such a new way to get to know each other?





























- Good to see you.


















Of course I'm old enough.







Old blinds!


If it's okay... I suggest we stay here for the night and leave early in the morning.







It's a good thing we got food.


Let's do this bet first.




























You better get inside before you get wet.


And my new nightgown and a pair of shoes.







- It's the last place I'd spend the night.













Wow, what a beautiful fire, doc.





- Hmm, not bad.
- Oh, no, that's very good.

















- Okay.


- Okay.





















Okay, I'll be up soon.
- Dinner's almost ready.
Need some help?


Soup's ready.






- Doesn't matter!




































Well, the beans will be ready soon.








- Okay. - But I can't.
























- Okay!























When I was less, I played with dolls.
















- Dinner's ready!






- Dinner's ready.












- Okay.


It's okay.

- I'm calm!






























- All right, come here!


All right, all right, let's go!











That's what I need.


























- Okay.


Let's say it's not bad!





- What a little sheet!







- Okay.























Good night, girl.













Okay, ham and eggs.

























- Okay, wait a minute.




I'm like a big girl.









- All right, let's go, Ferd.
































We're very pleased to see you officers.







































If you people are willing to accept our advice, you'll get it now.


It's best to get back to bed.




After him, there are beautiful dreams.

Camille, the doctor's right. We'd better get some sleep.
Good night, guys.















- Okay.
Oh, good!



See, everything's fine.















Did I fall asleep or did I wake up this morning?















Okay, the room is full of roulette tables!








- Okay.














- Okay.




























Okay.






















Does it matter?
In fact, if you prefer a girl with healthy eyes or a girl with beautiful eyes who is blind as a bat?

I noticed your beautiful eyes the first time I saw you.


Okay, they're... kind and clear... like two water bodies with water.






In fact, you're the most beautiful girl I've ever...






































It's a great time for games.






















Don't play games, honey.
I don't feel good.















You don't have to.






























Doctor, I think we'd better split up.
Too bad, I can't finish this experiment.







- That's a good idea.





If you need me, yell, "Oh, Chuck," and I'll come.







- Okay.















Are you ready to leave?
I'll be ready when he puts the keys to the front door.


























































Okay.













































You're a good guy.

















I caught you with an old ghost!



























- I'm a big fighter.








I didn't find any detectives, but we should go.
- Are you ready?
























You'll be happy if I prove that there's no money up there? - Come on.



You had a big head.

























I hope there's one big, green one.








We'll buy you a new one.

































- We don't need sauce.
















All right, let go of your hands.





































































Everybody happy?
















- Come on, darling.






- Oh, good.




















Very good, very good. $23.
Listen to this beautiful tune.




She dances in a little street cafe.





































Big business, huh?






Lots of good girls.


- Maybe it's better to wait for everyone to go home.




















There was nothing more beautiful in all of Wales.


















Most of the dirt was washed away, but some blackness remained for life.




I've never met a man whose conversation would be better than food.
Mother was always on her feet, always the last one to start eating and the first one to finish.








And there's peace, respect for the church is the first thing our father taught us.











You're so good.












Ivora and Bronwin married Mr. Griffith, the new priest who came from the university in Cardiff.





















We should have dinner, okay, woman?











A good worker costs good money.























- It's too important.

It's not more important than good manners.





All mines are ready.























For the last time, sit down and finish your dinner.


But if manners keep us from telling the truth, then we don't need them.



























He didn't do anything wrong, you know him well.












































- Okay.
You'll see the first flourishing narcissist on the mountain.











Now you better get back to the house or you'll catch a cold to death.



- Okay.




My mother spent the first months upstairs, and we only talked through knocks.




That's where the old snow came in.












I haven't seen you on duty lately.















Okay.








Very good.


You need him.



Because injustice cannot be won by even greater injustice. Only justice with God's help.





- Leave the old devil alone.














It doesn't matter.

















That morning, people were happy to climb the mountain.
































Of course, for good, my boy.





My son, I never thought I'd live to see such a beautiful day.





My children, you will have beautiful wires worthy of the Morgans.

Thank you for everything I have, and thank you for this new blessing.














Good morning, Mr. Griffith.














Okay?

Okay?









Good guy.










Prayer is another name for good, pure, honest thinking.




And the first duty of these new legs is to take you to church on Sunday.



























I know that Maeline Lewis is as good as me.


What do you know about what might happen to a poor girl? When she loves so much that not even seeing someone she loves is a great torment?













Good morning, Morgan.
- Good morning, Mr. Ivans.






























Good Welsh blood and all.

































She'd be happy if you were happy all your life.

It's better this way.































- Old national school!










All right, Mr. Griffith, what else do you have?









Who can't look back and remember the first day of the new school?
It's a long road across the hills to the next valley... and I was the first of my family to go to school.









Ah, a little genius from the coal mines.

















































































Good morning, Mr....
















And according to the rules of the Queensbury Marquis, may God rest his soul, I will be happy to pass on my knowledge to you.


All right, well, get him in position.
Look, to be a good boxer, you have to have a good right hand.



















We had our first grandson, Gville.







Okay.






















Really. Nice horse and black suit and a shirt with a flipped collar.
My baby's gonna be good. Here's a glass of smell for all your knowledge.









Every day I make his shoes and clothes, and in the morning they stay where they are.












I want what's best.
If he remains a good man like you and his brothers, I'll be happy.


Then there was good money and fair pay for everything.














The old coal is already shaking in the mountain.







If you're making clothes tonight, let it be my clothes in the morning.



- Okay.
Okay, I'll get my bed.

















It happened to Yanto and Davy, the best workers' mines, but too expensive to compete with poorer and desperate workers.











This way, to Canada at Yanto's, and then down to Davy's in New Zealand.








She didn't come to us, but stayed at Ivans' big house.




















And Mr. Griffith is still the first to get up and the last to go.















A new mistress, like a new leaf.













I wouldn't be surprised if an old mistress came up from the grave one day.




































My old beauty.











Today is my last sermon in this church.











































I'm glad you came.



























































- Okay, Professor.



And that's just the first sweetheart I've ever brought myself.

I want to tell you all that I was happy on this expedition.








































































It's no use, honey, he's a bookworm.


























































How nice of you.




























- It's better than Charlie.
- Okay, but there's something nice about Hopsie.





We'd better get back upstairs.






























Nice! Okay, I know you, or I wouldn't be playing with you.












- You're so cute. - Who else are we gonna take?


It's gonna be so much better.














Good thing it wasn't for money, or you'd be broke.



























...a governess and a very bad assistant.






- It'll make me feel better.










- Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's worse.




I'm glad you like it.







Shouldn't we go to bed?

It's a good thing you haven't been there in two years.






Is that a new kind of invitation?













































Okay, thanks.






















- What? A girl should have good teeth, it'll cost less.




- A little short guy with a lot of money.












Who needs an ideal that can't be found?



I need a rare man.






You better go to bed, Hopsie.



Good morning, Mr. Margotroy.








- Good morning, sir.








































Looks like it's a big difference.














- Yes, darling?

Good morning.

You're so beautiful.












...I think life with you would consist of ups and downs, out of light and shadow, out of confusion and very much happiness.





















It's hardly necessary.


















I'm glad you're in shape.



He's a great representative of the species of jackass.

























We'll have a beautiful house.


50 cents a week and a couple of new slippers for Christmas.





















Well, you finally gave me some good cards.








































I'll meet you on deck one in five minutes.










- My dear boy...












It's not even good at something. It would be nice to buy nice little things for someone who didn't have them.
Yeah, isn't that right, that's the tragedy of the rich: they don't need anything.

Dear sir, it's a drop in the sea.












Yeah, bad.









It would be better not to tell her anything about the whole story.















- Yeah, he's a big joker.

You're so beautiful. Thank you.













...like a distance. And then a very small one, like behind the horizon.




















- Shouldn't you ask a doctor?

























- Good morning.
- Good morning, Harry.






















Good morning.















If you didn't lose yesterday, Mr. Pike, you'd better not see it.








- Good morning.
- Good morning, darling.





The best of them aren't as good as you think, and the worst aren't as bad.
It's not that bad.




If you expect a man to offer you an offer, you'll die an old maid.




- Yes, darling?



- Good morning.

- Just coffee. Okay.







Don't you think of me that bad?





...I'm glad you only saw the picture today, if that means anything.



































- Come on, Daddy needs money!






- My dear Harry, wow!


Good to see you. And you, Gerald.
And a young lady, sweet as a deck of aces.














- But in general, my darling, it's a dream.











Good old Horace!







Well, it's good to see you.













I need him like a chicken axe.


































- You'll regret it, my dear.





























- Yes, sir? Good morning, sir.












- Come on, darling.














Good to see you.
































I said, "Why don't I get on a tram?"
And he said to me, "Well, it sure as hell is."














































































You're not the first.



































Beautiful.






Your son seems very nice to me.







































That's the last one. I'll wrap myself up with a towel if you need me.
Don't get upset, even in the best families, it happens.







































Oh, there you are, in your new white tux.





























- Yes. I need my own safety.

So I told him about a beautiful roommate, an old count, a young wife and two girls that no one's ever seen before.










- Okay, m'lady.





The sunset is gonna be so beautiful, I'm gonna get off the horse to see them.












Most men choose a tailor more carefully.




It seems to me that if you have to be careful for once in your life, weigh everything for and against, then at a moment like this.














- Then I hardly need to talk about the doubts that tormented me before I decide to talk.

...you're so beautiful, so impeccable, so...







Was she beautiful?




























Nothing, darling.









But it doesn't matter at all, darling.













Why are you torturing me on my wedding night?












It was such a small thing, darling.


- That's good.




You see, we've been making up new names at every hotel.




Yes, darling?

























- What, honey?



































Hello, darling.




I don't need money, and nothing at all.





































I'm sorry, but if you knew how happy I am to find you!


Colonel, it's good to see you!
























- But so am I, darling. Me too.

Yes, darling?





Effy, darling, let it go!















- They'll be home on the first day.








Sometimes it's hard to figure out what's best.













































This morning, when I saw him, he was wearing a gray suit and a gray hat.




Okay, Miss Vanderly.











- Thank you very much.





Maybe you saw her first, Sam, but I spoke first.













Listen, darling.







Good girl.











































Miles had his flaws, like many of us, but there was a lot of good in him.




Did you leave a new address?










































A few minutes ago. I had to take a walk, think about something.









































Honey.









You don't have to come here today, darling.




Okay. How did you get the widow out so quickly?









Beautiful, chatty, little angel.







You're just a detective, honey, but she didn't kill him.














Okay, I'll be right there.




















Mr. Archer was happy last night. - Very kind and nice.

























I really need your help.


You don't need anyone's help.






















- Nope. That's good.







You've got yourself a good friend.


It can't get any worse.


I don't think there can be anything worse than death.





















- I'm gonna have to give up a little bit.





I'll be back with the good news as soon as I can.





You're priceless, darling.
Get in touch with my lawyer, okay?






Okay, go ahead, then.

Come on, darling, let him come in?








More than just curiosity raised my question.



I'm willing to pay for it, on behalf of the owner of the statue, an amount of $5,000 for the return.
I'm willing to promise you that, as they say, everything will be "No questions asked."
$5,000 is a lot of money.



Good night.











I'm willing to pay $5,000 to return the statue.







I think if we're gonna make this work, we're gonna have to put all the cards on the table.
No, I don't think that's the best thing to do.























Okay.


- Turn right and drive up, chauffeur. - Okay.

Any good news?










I didn't have a very good life.
She made me bad.
Worse than you can imagine.


Okay.










You don't have to run around putting things around and point a stick in the fireplace, okay?


- I said $5,000 is a lot of money.
Big.








You're gonna have to tell me what you're talking about, 'cause you're not gonna ask me if you're hiding here, hoping everything's gonna be okay.



I need to talk to Joel Cairoo.















You're gonna let me talk to him as I see fit?



















- They're ready.


Are you willing to pay $5,000 if we find the falcon and return it to you?


I didn't mean to say that the money is right in my pocket, but I'm ready to get it in a short time, any time when the banks are open.


I think I'm gonna have money on my hands, say, tomorrow morning at 10:30.




















































At first, you said that I killed Fersby because he killed Miles wasn't in line with your new idea that I killed Miles, either.










Okay, Spade, we're leaving.

But think about it better.












































All you have to do is complain that they put pressure on you, and I'm gonna put them in jail.




Okay, girls and boys, we got this!


























































- Why does everyone need her so much?









But it didn't make me feel any better.















Coffee will be ready soon.






































Good morning.
Good morning.








You have an excellent explanation for everything.
















That's her third call this morning.








Thank you, darling.
Honey!









- Did you see Joel this morning?


Because, my dear, I need to keep in touch with everyone who's involved in a case that I can't figure out.
We need to find a new place for you.
























Do it better when you get back.







Hi, honey.


Okay.









- No, Sam, honey.


You better hurry home and think about what you're gonna say to the police.












The faster the better.











That's even better.







Okay.

















It's beautiful, sir, it's beautiful.




Okay.



















Beautiful! Now you tell me, and there'll be two of us.




All right, sir. Where is she?











All right, sir. I have to say, you have a very violent temper.
















- Good worker.


I don't need these informal meetings anymore.




























All right, sir, let's go.





- Very good.











And there came to them the idea of paying tribute for their first year of being a living falcon, not just a magnificent golden falcon, decorated from head to toe with beautiful stones from their coffers.
All right, sir. What do you think? - I don't know.













Okay, sir, in order to preserve the falcon, at least for the duration of his history, Carilaos again covered the bird with emal.














Okay, sir, they got her, but she didn't get me, but I hope I get her.








We both have a great deal to gain.



But it could be a lot of money.
- How big?
- How big.







































Now you know as much as I do, darling.













Okay, Sam.












She needs you!







Okay, I'm gonna go!








Okay.












Okay, then 26, and the faster the better.






Hi, honey.
What's the good news?








Okay, darling.
You'd better get something to eat and get some sleep.




Good night, Frank.
- Good night, Mr. Spade.




Fine, it's all there.











Are you ready to make the first payment and take the falcon away from me?



We agreed on a much larger sum.










The police need a man to take over all three murders. Three?



We need to hand over a man to the police.











That's our best bet.

But, do you see, my dear man, that if I ever imagined it for a moment, it's ridiculous.









A little better, darling?
A little better.


Nothing bad's gonna happen here.









You better tell him that killing me before you get the falcon isn't part of your plan.







Okay.

Maybe it's not as good as the first, but better than nothing at all.





You need a falcon.


And as for Miss O'Shaughnessy, if you think she'll be useful in part, I'm ready to discuss this with you.




























It'll be better for all of us if we wait for this time together until the operation is complete.











And we assumed that if we put him away like this, we'd make Miss O'Shaughnessy stop and think that it would be better to share with us everything she knows about the falcon.










Cairo, as you may have understood, contacted me after returning from the police last night or this morning.




































Would you put the kettle on, please, darling?


One moment, darling.
Wouldn't you rather leave the envelope here?

















It was a little joke, then and now, too.





I must have more than $10,000.
Sure, but it's only the first deposit. You'll give me millions later, and now maybe $15,000 now? Later.









- What about the coffee, my dear?





Hello, darling.






Good girl.




And this isn't the first day I've ruined.














































You're a man with good thinking and a lot of connections.


All right, sir. I prefer short goodbyes.























Okay.












Miles wasn't that bad of a guy to be spotted the first night.

























You thought you needed a protector, take the place of Fersby, and that's when you came back to me.
Yes, darling.


The first time I saw you, I knew it.
Okay, let's check our feelings, I think you're gonna be gone for about 20 years, and then you're gonna come back to me.
I hope they don't hang you, darling, for that cute neck.

- Yes, darling. I'll send you to jail.

If you're a good girl, you'll get 20 years.

























In this case, it doesn't matter what you thought of him.







Since I have something against you, I can't be sure you won't make a hole in me one day.

Maybe one of these reasons doesn't matter, I won't argue.















Okay!


























- No, no, it's brand-new.








White, black, brown... very beautiful horses.



- The boy's lunch is ready, ma'am.










The master had to do something very important if the boy let him sit down.



He played with a corkscrew this morning.
Honey.

Foxy Gent, who slows down at the finish line, has no chance of winning, but he can come first if he gets rid of it.




Nicky, something tells me something important is going on somewhere.













Mommy, we needed to know how Jack ended up.


Hello, darling!












I've got front row seats... and I don't want to miss them.

I'll be ready in two cocktails.









A beautiful woman, a cocktail, seven winners in a day.




Honey, the winner will be what I choose.












Very touching, darling, but I wish you wouldn't drive so fast.

Find me a mink, I'm a little mouse.














Honey, if you went to the dentist when you should, he wouldn't have to chase you on a motorcycle.








- Best detective job in 50 years.
Last time I read,



Tell me, Nick, are you working on a new case?


















It's okay, honey!











































What's good for you?


















- I need to see a man.

If we're lucky, we'll get out of here with the last stop.






It's a good thing you're here, Lieutenant.
The D.A. thinks you'd better be here.
- Maybe you want to be in a bad account.
























- Of course I have good connections.







I rented an apartment with Goldez, and on the last night, he didn't sleep.



























- We're old friends.
















Honey, sit tight.

- Honey, don't ask questions.




Maybe you're right, darling.

Beautiful.


Mommy, he's a beautiful kid.




















Drunk, darling?





I guess I need to see them.

It could be important.



You have no idea how happy I am to see you.












That jockey was our first real witness.


- But it's better than Goldez's fate.












Not so good, Nora.





















Well, that was a good idea.



They wear tights this season, darling.


















- Nick Charles, good to see you.













Linc, I want to talk to you about something important.
Of course, I'm always happy to talk to the press.

There's something Linc and I need to discuss first.
Sweetheart, do you mind sitting alone for a while?
Honey, of course not.

There's a big crowd today.




What's new about this jockey?


It's very nice of Paul to give us tickets after you turned them down.






It's a pleasure.









Best offer ever!

There's gonna be a big fight tonight.







- He'll be glad to hear my story.



























Honey, this is Spider Webb.





Honey, you got a confession.








Enjoying wrestling, darling?































- Aren't you happy with me?


















Bad.

I need a change of scenery.
I think you need a ride?



I need $10,000.
Well, it's not expensive at all for everything I've done.
It's a lot of money, Whitey.




Thank you very much!
Looks like we're gonna need a new man in the press.











- Molly, darling!



I need to act immediately.





















































































- You shouldn't have come.









- Good job.










Then it's a new perfume. Burn gunpowder.

























Can you tell me when he left this peaceful world?

He's got a big shot on the back of his head.

- Big hemorrhaging, nothing serious.















Clark is a good athlete.





Okay, let's just say that.





















What else do you want?











We'll take you first, you're so upset.












I had to get her on the wire.





























They got high stakes there.























Okay, you can go.






But when you have to catch two killers, it's good to deal with one already.






































You're gonna go home, you're gonna put cream on that cute face, you're gonna put on the most exciting penoir...






Beautiful!

Oh, what a good dog you have.
























Even it's better than sitting at home alone.
















































































Which I'd be happy to tell the reporters.



































Don't you get it? You'll be the first police officer in history to use a fake murder to reveal the real thing.



- It's very important.












Okay, wait.


Hey, Nicky, honey!


He has important information for you.





He's very busy at a very important conference. So...
Okay.












It's a big one, and it's a coward!


Look at the big panty!











He's big, he's a coward!

It's a big one, and it's a coward!

Enjoying the carousel, honey?




Would you like some oysters, darling? Or a plate of salad?
Nice investigation, Mommy.
Thank you, darling.
















Oh, that's sweet.



It's a new one.




It's very important in a murder case.



I thought it'd be better... to check it out without the police.




I'm glad you remembered.






Glad we found out.


































Friends, do you have bad teeth?














Now, before you die, my dear, I must tell you, I am not Professor Fetlock, astronomer, I am Baggo - Batty Mouse!

















































































Have you opened any interesting doors lately?


If you found oil, don't forget old friends.

I'm afraid he's been insufferable lately.

We'd like to meet the biggest lobster in this place.









Beautiful!














- Molly, what's gonna make you happy?





But Sibas is very good.







There's nothing too good for Nick's friends.




















































Everything was quiet until the two of you went to the bar.












If we had a bigger rainbow, we could get him to say a lot of interesting things.









Good to hear from you.














































It's plausible, you found a compelling motive for her, but we also have good motives for Stevens, Macy, Rainbow Benny and...



Paul, it's good to see you.





































That's even worse.


































































I need her here.



Honey, I'm sorry they brought you here, too.

I want to be here if you need me.




Good to see you.


















































Why did you so need an alibi?





I assume you needed an alibi for the same reason, Mr. Stevens?

I didn't need an alibi.

































You needed it a lot more...











- Oh, that's great!

































Maybe they'll give you some pretty cuffs.














Isn't she cute?
















Okay.


And I haven't killed jockeys in weeks.
- When was the last time you saw Benny?











































You had a great position to cover the syndicate.






























- When was the last time he had you?



But a week ago, I had to go somewhere else.
It wasn't until after 7:00 last night.





You took one wrong step, Major, but you left a big blood trail.




This, Mr. Charles, is your final conclusion.





You're the smartest, Mr. Charles, so you'll be the first.





































































































When was the last time you ate from it?












































I'm gonna go down to the closet and pick up some old clothes and some old shoes.



















- We'd better get him a million.




















You don't remember what day it is, do you, darling?











Good morning, sir.
Good morning, Burrows.




























- Very good, sir.
























I'm reshuffling that lovely "wheel house" DeMille used at Nordwest Mounted.


























Stolen by the vagrant, the poor and the cop...



- He left Hollywood at 4:00 in the morning.





- You say you don't need food soda anymore, Doctor?

- No, I don't need food soda anymore.
- I thought you said you needed to.
































Well, anyway, I think I'd better go to school now.
































Yes, ma'am. It's day one.





- Don't be so selfish, darling.


Even as a little girl, you were very nasty, darling. While I'm at it, if you remember...




- Yes, dear, but no one ever asked you.

Now that there's no more trouble for you today, let's do our best to bring back our good sense of humor and to remember our upbringing.




You know what I need?

- I need my hair straightened.


- You think, darling, Joseph would be against it if we gave him some clothes he needed right now?





















- Well, I guess that's all you need.
- No, I guess you don't.



- Good night.
- Good night.























- Good morning.
- Good morning.






That's very nice of you, sister, but I'm not hungry.



















































And besides, I could walk in a new outfit.
I wish I could give you some of the things you need.


I mean, think about it if you were some big shot, like acting director.















































- What's the name of that important director?























You better drop me off at the next corner and get that wagon back where you stole it.


















































The film creates the best educational environment the world has ever known.


- Yes. God, I bet he wouldn't even talk to you right now, would he?


That's funny, isn't it? Meet the first film director you've ever seen on the day you leave Hollywood and everything's in the past.

















Good morning, sir. - I'm so sorry.
- Good morning, sir.



















- Okay, but you can't drive your car without a license.





















You're a very nice girl. Actually, I'm glad I met you.
If there's anything I can do for you, I'd love to.


















- You're a big liar.

You've got to be kidding me! With all your stories about a former director, you're a big idiot.



- I need that brush for my experiment.

















I think I should be very happy for you, like you just found oil or something.





















It's gonna be a nice ending, and we're gonna finish what we started this morning.














An important director, where all the girls sigh.





This is Sullivan, a famous director from Hollywood. A big cheater, a con man, a scoundrel...






Will you find me some old clothes, Mr. Burrows?

























Thank you very much for that, sir.















Thank you so much for your trouble.

Have a good day.























- Beautiful weather.














You better tell the butler to close the window.


























You're like those knights of old times who used to ride all over the place looking for trouble.



























I like being with you, and that makes me feel good.
You can take a bunch of girls and make them sleep in the shit all night, just don't tell them they'll bring their breakfast the next morning. They can't stop thinking about it if they're not lying on the ground.




















































I'm glad for you.






































Aren't you better?



And they'd give you a nice free funeral, too, on Potter's field.



- That's because you're a very important person.

- You're making very nice pictures.

























- Good morning, Joseph.

- He knows everything. - Good morning.

- Good morning. He did everything he wanted, except he was gonna do a little tour.













- With a beautiful, extensive recommendation for Lubitch.
























- Okay.

She needed 24,000 to live.
- Okay.

- Okay.













I think it's better than nothing.




































- The last time he came back...














We need to check it out.

























I'd like you to come with us, my dear.

You were his last discovery. His last gift to this world.
























































I need to make a call.























- I need to get out of here.



I need to get out of here.




Look, I need a lawyer.





I need a lawyer.








Good news.































You need to learn.

We're not that bad.









Charlie's little concern.




Could you clear the first three benches so they can sit down?




He said, "Let him who has no sin throw a stone at me first."














Tell the old one...














Tell the old one...








He needs to be Houdini himself to get out of there?
















He'd fly out of here every night, but he'd come back every morning.




If this is the scene that needs a turn, it's time.









Well, when you die, and if you were important enough...







You're gonna tell Mr. I'm ready to confess everything.














- I'm so happy.

- I said I'm so happy!










































- It's not a bad trick, but you're kidding, right?
- Nope. But this story has received more publicity than the Johnstown Flood.



On the one hand, I'm too happy to film "Oh, brother, where are you?" Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,







It's not much, but it's better than nothing in this stupid human path.















For the last three years, we've only been advertising carnival...

Maybe Happy Mardi Gras?















































The wedding can wait, but here's 480 passengers sitting on board the ship need to be removed as soon as possible.

- Tell them we don't need them.
- Yes, you do!
The plane should be ready in 40 minutes.





You have no idea how important this is to me!




If he's so important, you have to pay him more.



Okay, fine.







It's a new ship.
- Thank you very much.





























































Great... I'm very happy.


















- Okay. Okay.















This is the best hotel room and the best hotel in town.

You can't find the best view in the whole country!











But the best part is, of course, Casino Madrileno.























- Glad you're happy, Miss Spencer.





I just want to deal with it. I have to go back to New York.





Maybe, but with big corporations, you have to keep your ears open.



Okay.













There's a good club called Midi. Midi"?






























I showed you the city. Right now, we're at the best nightclub.










Without you, I can be as bored as I am with you.

































All right, Monte. Let's go.




















I'm sure you'll be all right.
She lives in the most expensive room.
She's got a closet full of luxurious outfits, very expensive.















The table in the center is a happy one.










Does it matter?


You play for a while, and I need to make a phone call.




Good to see you, Monte.
It's a good thing I didn't have to send for you.
I would have come yesterday, but I had some business to attend to first.













She's definitely gonna lose a lot of money.




- I just wanted to make the best deal. - I already did.




Thank you, thank you very much!

You were right, this table is happy!





But a good player always feels a roulette.
- Right now, you're gonna have to bet on an eight. - Eight? Why?



Well, you were right about the happy table, so I'll bet on eight.































We need more blue chips.






When you're not so lucky, you have to change the table.










I think it's a lot of money, but if you're okay with it, there's no problem. - What?





- A big department store in New York.























Thank you very much, sir.


Okay, fine.





Your reputation leaves much to be desired. It's all rumors.













If it's gonna work, it's gonna take a lot of money.






- Ready?






I knew I had to bet only on that number.









- I should have left a long time ago.






















And I say to myself, "Monthe, you've healed." It takes a lot of willpower.

























































I missed the first part, but the last sentence matters.





















































That would be a good lesson for him, wouldn't it?

Show me you don't need him.











- I'll meet you there at 10:00, okay?
- Okay.






































- You call it expensive?







- It's beautiful.






I think it's good.




- I'm your new manager. - What?

I've never represented the interests of artists, but I have a lot of experience in management. - Yeah?

I hate to praise myself, but I'm a good businessman.





You're big and strong.
























I think we should go.






And champagne is so good.















At the end of the day, they were the first.




















Then you don't need them.






















- I have a new manager!






























Okay, come on.















I saw the car, and I did the first thing that came to my mind. - Okay.







I'll buy you a new pair.




















I need to sit down.





I should've just put you in your room, set you up with an account... and leave you alone.












I'm still young and ready to learn.




















The rest of the time, you're really cute.











The last woman who broke my glasses was practically beheaded.





















If you're not ready, it's okay.





















Besides, it was half past six in the morning.












We need to talk.





J, darling.
I'm so happy I can't believe it!


- What, honey?











- Jay, honey.





I said I'd sign it if my vacation was good but I never dreamed of it.


I just thought I'd give it to you on the last day.





Good morning.




















Why did you have to wait?












We'd better get back to New York and get married as soon as possible.

I still have to sign the waiver.





You have to finally realize... that my wedding is a hundred times more important than your stupid business!

- Is it that important?

You know, Terry, you don't have to be mad at me.








Okay.









All right, give it to me.







I think you should go now.
It's too bad the salesgirl's dreams are broken.












You don't have to understand.


It's a lucky occasion.

That would be a big mistake.











I accepted Mr. Williams' offer because I really needed the money to settle my debts.


























Señorita, I need to get the money to Boris as soon as possible.


















My dear, how can I play if I don't have the money?





- Shouldn't we ask permission first?







































- Thank you very much, Monte.

















- Have a good trip.






- We're ready to take off, sir.










Honey, please.







Okay, but I still don't like it.

We all need to relax.











That you like the glitter of her beautiful eyes.















































To overcome them, you have to keep your faith.






















Bad, bad, very bad.

Reverend Master, the fire in your parts is so great.













So her husband's the Old Bull?



Old Bull doesn't live there.





Stupid, I always go first.


I always go first, now it's your turn!

















































Maybe it's better if you go again.







































Very well, let the noble student go to the Fire Mountain first.

All right, let's go!









Okay, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go!

It's a good decision.


Do you think I'm good today?





Honey, what are you saying?
Go ahead and I'll follow you, okay?



















There's a very beautiful girl here.






I still need your help on one case.





Well, since we're old friends, I won't fight you.




















I felt so bad, I thought I was gonna die.





Please have a beautiful wine.
The chicken is scented, the duck is beautiful, and the pig is fat.


























You should drink less tonight.






Maybe I should go to the Palm Leaf Cave.







Now I can be calm.












All her maids are beautiful.
The old boar almost didn't make it.

It's a big deal.



The old boar is really the best.
The old boar is really the best.






Old Pig, you recognize me, don't you?








But then the Old Bull turned into you and tricked me, too.
The old Bull has great magic power.






















Okay!





Old Bull, where's the fan?


Honey, honey.



Okay, okay!






- Hurry up, you're the last.

With this little event, we want to celebrate the flight to the stratosphere of two young aeronautists and astronomers.

In their flight, I see the symbol of the eternal youth of science, and I am particularly pleased that such beautiful ambassadors will go to the uncharted corners of our universe.


To celebrate the first flight into the stratosphere organized by our institute, we have decided to plant this tree, which will grow, as will the glory of our young scientists!











Monsieur Lucien loves a quiet and peaceful life with his wife and children.



My wife went to the hospital this morning, I'm waiting for a phone call.












Very good.

Gondola's ready, we need to set up the electroscopes.







- Good idea for a scientist.








Now, dear friends, I invite you to toast to the success of our venture and to the happiness of our newlyweds.


















And if it's love, it's even better.


























Oh, I'm so glad!

And what a wonderful couple you are, a beautiful couple of scientists.



- Good sign for our flight.










Dear friends, I hate the ceremony.




They're so cute.






Friends, as you know, we leave tomorrow morning.












You only think about fun, but it costs a lot of money.







Is that your new trick?

















- It's gonna be okay.
See, he says it's gonna be okay, and he's finished polytechnic.





Oh, come on, I'm very calm.



























No, no, Françoise, you don't have to be upset or angry.
We both know everything's ready for flight, it's already been announced.






Then the others will fly, sweetheart.















Are you saying I know better than you?


But, Françoise, darling, I'm gonna be scared.


You need... I don't know...





Dear Monier!
I'm so happy!







How happy I am!








But I'm doing this for you, so you explain it to her tomorrow morning so she can understand.


Then you'll be happy.


















- Well, are you happy to be flying?
- No, I'm not happy.














But I can tell you that I had a good night's sleep and everything's ready for flight.










But you have great hopes?


It's a small picture.



















- Only good, Mr. Director. - Absolutely.




It's the hardest thing to do, but after... you know... you have to pull yourself together...















- I'd love to do something.






Okay. I'll send the first message that everything's okay.






























It's not enough that this straut is so... an ambush, and now this, we need to fix this.













- Yeah, Lucien, it's like I weigh less.














































Two days is bad.
Dear listeners, it's been eight days since brave aeronausts made themselves known, and given their silence, as bitterly as it may be, there seems to be no hope.





























We need to stabilize him.










So I opened a new reception!









The elevator would have been better.
























I have an old car.
Okay.

She's old, but she'll always take you where you need to go.




















- What do you want?





























What do you want?




First floor.





















































































A small tree has become a tall oak...
























































First.

The most beautiful days.




It's just as beautiful.






She stayed the same as the first day.




You know what upsets me, darling?












You're a hero now, darling.











































Andre was always a good son.


Yeah, but you don't know anything about new cars.





















































- Okay, okay, we get it.


















The first star cruise will be followed by others.




When I need money, who else am I gonna ask?











I'm glad to hear it.


















In business, you have to be careful.




Any new idea can benefit if you know how to use it.









Oh, I'm so glad!
Gentlemen, we need to move fast.











- Okay.


Okay.









Of course, the cabins are a little tight, but we need to save space.

It'll save a lot of space, and the passengers will feel more comfortable.






- She'll be more comfortable than the first time.









No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,


































And if that's the case, I'd rather arrange family trips or Sunday tours in the countryside.



She has to promise not just a trip, she has to promise something more - that you'll fly away, disappear, spin between the planets.




I want the staff to be made up of women, and only beautiful ones!




I don't know if all this is necessary...



Okay?
- Okay?
- Okay.









The earth is too small.




















You'll see the meteor fireworks and comets, the lights of the birthing stars and the last flashes of the dying.














































Okay, I'll fly.










- My coat is big.




Miss Gaby, it's good to see you.



























































This is her first flight.


























- And it's for the best.










- Good for you.

- A very old uncle.




I love my uncle, but he's old, and he has money.






























- To lead the first flight.






It's a beautiful station.

It's a very, very beautiful station.


- I need two pillows.



I need two pillows, and I'll get them.






































- What beautiful flowers!




- Very good.









It's even more beautiful than I thought.














- Old Uncle.
- Good idea.



















- Very good.






- Okay, come on.





She had a terrible scandal this morning when she saw her own green face in the mirror.










































You're not feeling better?















The first one shows the exact time on board. It's 10:22.








You should see me in my best years.

















- Better and better.













The first night I told you this cruise was gonna be deadly boring.
Well, the first hours... I mean, the first months... or the first years.









- Okay, okay.
She's very nice, but when she tells me in my ear, it tickles my hair and makes me sneeze.
You're playing worse, Uncle.











Physical exercise is beautiful.







It's a good thing we have TV.






















It was on the first flight.
































Little, lonely...









































Okay, I closed the chains.



















Yeah, go on, it's not gonna get any worse than it is.







We don't need technical terms, we want to go back to Earth.













Are they calm?














Easy, it's just a little accident, a little accident that's gondola's gonna spend hours on Venus.
During the stop, passengers are allowed to leave the ship, but please do not go far and return on board at the first sound of the siren.
- It's not that bad.




































- But we're happy here.








- That's nice.

Maybe because we're happy.








We have doctors, scientists, labs, everything we need.

















A life where you don't need money.



- They really made a good life for themselves.












Tomorrow we'll find you a good place to live.







To escape from something, my dear venearian.

































- It's nice here, of course.


















By the way, Lucien, I told you to tell the passengers that the repairs are over, and we're ready to go.















- I have two good reasons.
- First?

















Have a safe journey.


























The first gondola is coming back...









































It feels like they've invented new noise-making machines.




































































- Good old Earth.




































































































- You better get those bets back.














He doesn't say no, but he says the rate for a taxi should be less.























There's a new invention called the phone.























Tell her if I get fucked up at the game, she's got a new sausage.





You guys did a good job.

- This date is important to me.








- Okay.
Okay.




Well, who better than him?





- Oh, it's good to have you back.




























Tell me, Dad Miller, you've been very busy lately.
I've been watching you all morning.






Tell me, Dad Miller, did you go down to the pier this morning?
You know, I go to the pier every morning.






Maybe you need some support.



You see, work tonight is very important.














The player on the first, the player on the second player on the third, two outs, three balls and two strikes, and we're out of the game.











I'm glad you're here.


























- When was the last time you saw him?









- Well, okay...































You're a good cat.




He was a good man.




































































Now you're gonna go home and buy yourself a new hat.


If you need more, let me know.


























Okay, okay.



This is their first trip to New York.













































I'm the happiest person in the world.





- I'm sorry, honey.

- Goodbye, sweetheart.




















Okay, Marty. Okay.




















- You're a big brag.








- Not bad.




Okay, Mom, I'll talk to her.







- Good night.
- I'll tell you in the morning.

Good night and don't take long.
Okay, I'll go to bed early.




















You have a bad memory, too.




















Okay.

























- The Miller family was our good friends.





















- Okay.





Mr. Donahue opens a new club in a few weeks.



- Yeah, it's... it's a brand-new idea.


But we're good here, aren't we?












It doesn't matter.
















All right, Reginald.






- Good night.
- And you better not come back.
























































All right, send her flowers.
Ladies and gentlemen, we interrupt our program to give important news.



The police are now looking for Donahue, who was last seen in a long black car... license number 220077.






Yeah, that's good.










































Okay.


We need to get inside somehow.






Better get him out of here before they steal him.













































You need to bring yourself up, you look awful.












































Twenty-five hundred dollars once, two and sold to this very nice lady in the second row.

- I think it's best to take a look around.




















































I've already found everything I need, Sister.


















You've got it all planned out.







That's very nice.




















Little lady and I are leaving.









- No, I met him for the first time today.




He's opening a new club.

- Oh, he's a big shot on Broadway.






Bad weather.









The police will come to me first as the master of the factory.






Pepi, you better take care of Donahue.































Good night.

Good night.



Looks tall, dark, handsome, like a gentleman.































- Good night.
- Good night, ma'am.

I said good night.








But I'm sure you know that if you betray us one day, your father will be the first to hear about it and the first to pay for it.








- Glad to be of use.


























I need to defend myself.













I left you, my little Hansel, yes.








Madame has a great imagination.
















I'm glad you accept my position.


Now, gentlemen, you're going on a little trip,
Unfortunately, you won't see most of the landscape.







Have a safe journey.








































Beautiful.




We need to grab some souvenirs.




































Right now, we must divide them into vicious little groups of people who attack each other unconsciously doing our work.




































All right, go ahead, take the hat.













































- Give her the old one or two.








































- Okay.

























I wanted to start the evening with a good poker party, and I was taken to Central Park to play cowboys and Indians.



























































Here's my picture, one of the best.






Better now?







You'd better find out about your old man in a quieter environment.


It's better now.
It's better for him, I guess.









- Meet important people.


I knew you were okay the first time I talked to you at the club.














We've got this little device in Sing Sing, it's just gonna disappear.





























Okay.



















Good night.




















































- Okay.
































You don't look like a pretty, little fairy.




















We'll have the D.A. figure it out in the morning.





You performed the party well, but I'm a bad viewer.







I give up, darling.







































The best thing for Gloves is to get on a plane and fly as far away as possible.



You brought him into this first.














































Gloves is in trouble and who's gonna pay the court fees and the judges need to be greased, too.
Well, okay, take them.




























Here's a good chair.




















































I've got a report on what's going on out there at first hand from this Hamilton, and I'm telling you, we need to think about what we're doing.







- Listen, big shot.






Read the papers, it's on the front page every day.



And I need your help.


- Okay.





I'm first in line. I want to hit their swastika.

- We still have to find out.























All right, sister, take your things.
















Prison is no place for a sweet girl like you.





















It's better now.























































Very good.






















- Okay.


















Well, if you think it's best.































It doesn't matter.










And the sentaparte needs to level the belly buttons if the gratistan's on the augar.














































You stupid, stupid, dumb old fool.










You've caused me great trouble.











Beautiful.
We gotta get out of here.








The people you wanted to split into little evil groups.




















- Oh, that's beautiful.





















Excellent explosives, Mr. Donahue for the newest American Linkor.

You think you're gonna drown one of the biggest ships on your own?









And now you're gonna see, Mr. Donahue, what kind of breed is this people of the New Order.






Even the steel plates of your Lincor will not be able to withstand these new explosives.









































Okay, darling, get out.










I feel like a little princess saved from a dragon by a white knight.













- Are you okay?



























- Thank you very much.




The whole daddy's a bunch? It's better to be their father than a half-wit like you.




























When you open your window, life becomes beautiful.
When you open your window, life becomes beautiful. In a clock with no code and "three times nine to twenty-seven."












I have to go home.





















Or you'll get as much as he does.




And you, you'll be the first!












She's beautiful!











She must be very expensive.






Well, well, big buyer!




It's a little expensive, kid, 30 escudos.














I have what I need.











The worst part is, it's broken. Forget it.
I can buy a new wolf.

New wolf!










You don't need four yards, three and a half is enough.





There's something in black.


Very good fabric. Foreign manufacturing.......................................




Oh, the water is so good! I really dived!



























Tomorrow morning, I have some work to do.





































That's cute!














































Wait, the old scarecrow.













































He wanders in the dark, taking the bad people with him.





















You've been rewriting this sentence all morning so that you can't get in your head like that.



If the master was alone, he'd better think about what he did wrong and not do it again.
If the master did what he had to do, nothing bad would have happened.






Is he that sick?
It can't be that bad.







































I don't want anything bad.
I just need to get away from here.



















You're a good man.
You're good for babies, too.



















It needs to be fixed.



It makes you happy and cleans your kidneys.












Wait, I've got less!



































- Good morning, Mr. Minister!

Is it that bad?
It's always bad when you call me Edward.




















It's bad, but I'll be generous...
















I need support.





Do you need a job?


What a beautiful role!


They said I was too good.

























That's what people need.




















He's in big trouble.











- I bought her a little one.









I don't need any subordinates.



Haven't found a better class than pushing me, poor thing.























































- Yeah, big and fat!




She must be in good shape to sleep with such a boar!


















- The old crook!




















Good address... Monsieur Durana.
















In an old dresser, old and ugly...

Nice business cards with the name... Monsieur Durand.












- Bad idea.












Tell me and I'll be good all week.























Honey, why are you so angry?



I've got a bad streak, but I'm actually good.










Let your last thought be about me, because I've always loved you.


Goodbye, darling.






He has a beautiful voice.









- You have to make the bed.









- What's new?








Good morning, how are you?




We writers need concentration.


















9:00 a.m.











Professor, you're always ready to help me.
































- I need a room.











































You need to focus not on what you see, but on what you don't see.






























- Okay.




You're exaggerating, but I was a beautiful kid.


























































Good to see you!














































- How's the new tenant?














That's cute!
You have good lungs!





















Your goose is ready.












Or better yet, why not a little hotel?


















- Good idea.















Very nice, but Duran will be caught by then.



- It's a big "if."



























There's a conversation in the first chapter, as it is now.
























You'll find a new body there.





Vincent, darling!









- My dear Vincent!













































Beautiful lesson!




























Who was the last person to see Mademoiselle Cook alive?




























Okay.


- Very well, take off your robe!





No questions asked, I'll tell you everything.
This isn't my first interview.


















































It was too expensive.






























- No, it was this morning.





























I can recommend a good eyeist.
Beautiful cape.
























































I could send you to a better world.



























































That's a good one.















































That's the last one.
Oh, great!





- That's very nice of her.

























I'm finishing the first part.












Okay, thanks.





































- Beautiful weather, isn't it?

- It's good to be alive.
- Mostly.
Last warning.





























































Are you okay?





- Nice place, isn't it?








































'Cause I'm your first... and your last favorite.


That's sweet.



There is one of you who is most admired.
















You were a terrible little animal.























That's a good one!


















The new prince was born.





- Honey, isn't it?





Thank you very much.



















Bambi, my dear Bambi.


- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mrs. Overwhelming.
Where's the little prince...
- Good morning, Bambi.


Good morning, young prince.
Good morning, young prince.










What did Dad tell you this morning?
If you can't say anything good,
If you don't say anything, don't say it.













































- It's a little...



Honey!
Nice flower!
















A little song of rain sings.













You were too young.






















I'm gonna go out first, and if it's okay, I'm gonna call you...




Good morning, young prince.

















He wrote the last line himself!







































It's good here!















Good night...

















































Hmm, I think it's worse than a cold!




























For example, you walk in the woods, in your own business, you don't look to the right or to the left. All of a sudden, you run into a nice face.






















I call you after me, darling...
































































Davis leaves with a good pilot.
- What do you mean, "Leave with a good pilot"?
- McLean's a good pilot.
Am I bad?
McLean's a good pilot.

Well, it's the best job I didn't get.











The plane's ready.



































I ordered him, too, Johnny, and he was the first.










Mr. McLean seems like a good man.


My best client, and he took him away.
That two-shoeser stole my best passenger from under my nose.













- I saw him this morning.




















Look, Johnny's got a new plane!

It's beautiful!





















I think I should come here more often.
Let's see if you're as practical as beautiful.
All right.






















That's better.













Deep down in your beautiful brown eyes, sweetheart.








His engine's been messing around lately.














If something happens, you jump out, you pull that cord, a big umbrella opens up. And you swim to the ground like you're lying on a cloud.














































































We have time to fly to Winnipeg and buy a new one before dark. We can have lunch at Luck Verth.











I feel really bad.










































He needs a doctor.
































Okay, we need more people.


Let's get started. I'll build a raft, we need fuel. Call your old man.











Okay.










Four good planes, two in reserve, all we need for the airline.







Don't worry. A couple of days of your cooking and it's gonna be like a new one.

The bankers said one good winter and we could open up our airline.
- That'd be good.




















I'd love to, but I can't.






Well, he's fine. Okay.
















Okay. I'm going back and forth.


- Goodbye, darling.







Goodbye, darling.


I'm glad you stayed.




















































You don't have to. Skinny and I want to offer you something.





I need three planes.


You're willing to do anything for your airline.























Okay, let's go straight.
I offered you this job because you're a good pilot and you owe us.



































That's good. You're gonna need my push when you land.




This new partner of yours has messed up here.



I don't need her anymore.

Look, you don't have to fly.









See you later, sweetheart.





































- That's good. - We need to light the lights.

Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, He needs to know the direction of the wind.


























It doesn't matter anymore, baby.






































- Ready?


So, I'll be free in the morning.
If you're looking for me, I'm the drunkest person in the biggest hotel in Ottawa.







































He's too big to be fooled.







Are you happy?







She left this morning.






















Oh, Brian, all these beautiful things.
I need something to eat, and you need something to calm down.



































We'd be happy to have any sum.






























Bye, honey.
Sweet liar.



































I'm always happy to see you.








It's so good to see you.












My plane is too small for this job. So, if we get a couple hundred, I'm gonna trade my plane for a used two-engine and...



Last time you had 4,000.
Last time we both had 4,000 each.


















will continue to fight until, in God's blessed time, the New World, with all its power and power, goes to the salvation and liberation of the Old One."









Okay, I'll take them.





















They came by to see if you needed pilots.













I thought they needed pilots.










Okay.

































It's really good to see you guys.


You were assigned to the training unit because of your extensive experience.



But you're here, and we need you.














You're too old.

Am I old?
Am I too old?

















And I'm too old for combat flights.

















































































You may be a good circus man, but I'll teach you how to fly.

So what do I have to do?






- Yeah, he's good.















Maybe he'll be a good pilot for Jarvis.




You act according to the rules, it's good in peacetime.






Okay, let's start with 250 meters.



I've seen a lot of machine guns these months, and you've been the best.
I'm very glad to hear that.

They're asking me to report to the new flight manager.




You pay your respects to the new boss?






Okay, so you're the new boss.

























- The other one's ready.



Ready to drop.







The first one went.








Ready to fly, Alabama?
This may be my last bombing, sir.

Is it that bad?

The chief instructor told me that the prescribed training course... you had the best pilot in the department until you knew the rules.















It wasn't the best manoeuvring.







Are you ready? Prentiss!

The court found that Senior Lieutenant Brian McLean, room C-1969, the first bombing school, Jarvis, Ontario, ignored the charter of the base.










Read the latest news, sir.



The latest news...


















Because I fly on instincts, and because I'm old.


















- We need to meet him.





He was an ass in World War I.




A very important man.





Nice white wings.






We're too old.















Good old Popcorn.

Little white wings.

I'm very happy to see such old soldiers still in service.


You must have been 11 or 12 in the last war.


You earned them after a long and intense training, and they told the world that you had completed your first assignment.



Your training is equal to or better than that received by the enemy.



I am very pleased to see you British warriors today, side by side with Canadians, warriors from faithful Quebec, great plains of Manitoba and Saskatchewan, British Columbia far west, and other provinces.
And those who come from our great brotherly domain, Australia and New Zealand.


Now, I'm gonna enjoy giving you your wings.








- You've come a long way.
- Yes, sir. I'm guessing you're trying to make a bigger way across the ocean.






It's good to see you here in Australia's military uniform.


- Thank you very much, sir.

































































































My first real lunch in a month and I didn't taste shrimp.










I don't need to explain to you how important it is to get the planes to their destination.















































This is considered the most dangerous area.


The first number of the line will be commanded by the captain.











































There's some things we need to clear up.








But in the English Air Force, I could get a new chance.











Now the only thing that matters to me is to fly this bomber.












Ready to take off.











Besides, I don't want to miss the first kind of coast of England.


































































It's awfully boring, but nice.
















































Here, money, communications, or just luck helped lucky people get exit visas and run to Lisbon, and from Lisbon to the New World.



Two German couriers carrying important documents were killed on a train from Oran.











- I don't know, honey.

We don't hear well, and we understand even worse!

As usual, Mr. Renault, the prefect of the police is taken to search refugees, liberals and beautiful girls.






Thank you very much.



- What, honey?






Thank you, Captain, I'm glad to be here.




We Germans need to get used to any climate from Russia to the Sahara.

- What about it, darling Major?



- Okay.











Okay.












































These German couriers are bad news, aren't they?











It's not that bad, I get exit visas for them through my channels.
At a good price, Ugarte.
















Today I'm gonna sell them for more money than I could ever dream of, and then Adio, Casablanca.




























Very bad.




Maybe he's ready for a change.



I'm fine here.





Okay.






















Take her home! - Okay, boss.

Okay, boss.











What's so good about Lisbon?






One, two, and three!







One gentleman won 20,000 francs and the cashier needs money.
















Rick, we have an important guest today, Major Strasse, from the third Reich.









































- Okay!

No matter how smart he is, he still needs a visa.







It doesn't matter.


Because I, dear Rick, suspect that under that cynical face in the shower, you're sentimental.











Dear Rick, you're overestimating the influence of Gestapo.






Carl, put the Major in a nice table, close to the ladies!
I've already put him down for the best, knowing he's German and he's still gonna take it!



- It's all set, sir.






Can I recommend Vew Kliko? Good French wine.
All right, sir!






















We've been honored, Rick.







































Of course, I have to admit, he's a very brave man!

























Yeah, that's interesting! Okay.
















I was told you were the most beautiful woman in Casablanca.




No, Emile, a bottle of the best champagne.












But I'm such an idiot, I'm talking to a beautiful woman about another man!




















Very good.






- Okay. Don't worry!



















All right, Mademoiselle.

- Not very well.

Too bad you're late.





All right, sir!





- Sing something from the old one, Sam!
- Okay, madam.

















































- The last time we met...
- Beautiful Aurora.





















- Wish Sam well! - Okay.


















































Okay, boss.






















Beautiful Aurora.



































There's something I need to do in town before I leave.

Okay. No quarter-five.














Kiss me, kiss me like it's the last time.





Last call, Mr. Richard.



Rick, I need to talk to you.
I didn't finish my first drink to drink with you!








Richard, darling, I'll go anywhere with you.







Every day, especially the last one, the final one.









He has opened up to her a beautiful world of knowledge, thought and ideals!


Yes, very nice!
















It's good to see you.





Okay, Laszlo, I'm gonna say no offense. You're the escaped prisoner of the third Reich.





















If you give me their names and whereabouts, you'll get a visa in the morning.




















Nothing important, can I talk to him now?





















- Good morning, Rick.




- I don't drink in the morning.










I would, too, but I'm a bad businessman.












You need a partner!

- Good morning!




It doesn't matter. Thank you!




It doesn't matter.



- I don't really need it.




























You see, my dear, the rumor has already spread!































Thank you very much.















Thank you very much.


















Monsieur Rick, you will be your best visitor.

I'm glad for you.



























Dear Major, we're trying to cooperate with your government, but we can't manage people's feelings.





We're worried about something more than Casablanca.










Thank you very much.
I thought you'd invite me, so I brought you a good brandy and a glass.



Good idea!






Oh, bad, he's in there!














Like all men, but more than that!









It's really bad out there right now.



















And he would never know, and she would keep this bad thing to herself, everything would be okay, right?













I think he's for you, this Paris on happy days!



























I'm happy for both of you.



- Thank you very much.









I'd be very happy if she lost!





- Okay.
You know how important it is for me to get out of Casablanca.
I'm happy to be one of the leaders of the movement.

Do you know how important this is for the lives of thousands of people to be free, to go to America and keep working?








Yeah, I think it's an expensive hobby, too.
But I've always been a bad businessman.















- It's a good place to rest!
- Too good.












It was not safe for him to leave Casablanca this morning.









































I love you very much, darling.





Yes, darling?









Sasha will be happy to know.

- You shut it down, okay?
- Okay.



Good night!
Good night, Mr. Rick!












I know what you're thinking about me, but please forget it for more important!

















I'm sorry, but you're our last hope.


This is a good place to do it!

Okay, I tried to convince you, I tried everything.
Now I need these letters.
Bring them! You don't have to.



For the last time, put them on the table.

Okay, I'll make it easier for you.









He was needed in Prague, but he was waiting for the Gestapo!












































Okay.









We ran away at the last minute.

- Okay, now! We need to turn off the lights in the yard.





Okay.
























The first night I came to this cafe, I realized there was something between you and Ilza.


































The last plane.




The last person I want to see in America.















You get it, and we're leaving, and for the Germans, the latter will only be a little displeasure.

Miss Land, she's very beautiful, yes. But you're not usually interested in women.






























All set?













Okay!




























Tell them what you need and remember that this gun is pointed right into your heart.





Okay.














































But it's not hard to see that little people's problems aren't worth an egg in this crazy world.
















It's good to see you among the wrestlers again.

Are you ready, Ilsa?
Yes. I'm ready.








































Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship!








I'm afraid they have to be very bad for that, besides:










"Dear Miss Dubrovna..." "I'd like to write, "Would you like a cup of tea with me?"











You're the first friend I've ever had in America.


- But maybe you're my first real friend.




































He was a good king.


























- I'm afraid the ship will be good, Ellis.

















You little devil.



















The last time they did that was when a homeless cat came to us and ate one of my pets.














She's a good woman.




























































Oliver's fiancée seems to be a very nice girl.
And very beautiful.



He and Oliver will be very happy together.






Thank you so much for this wonderful party, Ellis.




What did this woman say to you, darling?


















I'd like to ask... Mrs. Reid. What is it, darling?














That's all I ask.
Good night, Irene.
Good night, Oliver.
Good night, Irene.






For happy visitors, a monkey cage and a bird wolf.




















They're happy.
They make their husbands happy.
They lead a normal, happy life.




All right. The bird was scared of you and what?
I had a rabbit who hated me... but I grew up to be a good guy.
















We don't need King Ivan with fire and a sword.
We need a man who can find the reason for your faith and cure it.
That's what we need.


The best.
The best.
































Ellis, it's so good to see you.
Hello, darling.



Ellis knows, darling.






I knew she'd advise a good doctor.
I don't understand why it was necessary.















- What happened, darling?








Whatever it is, it's safe in me as long as I'm happy.
I'm ready to get the moon out of the sky, darling.
I'm ready to dance on the streets to make you happy.







This is your third mistake this morning.









But I met him this morning.
He didn't have it after that first visit.







Happy childhood.








































- What do I need him for?






















































Good night, John Paul.
Here, Miss Agnew, new matchboxes for your collection.




















I'm a new type of woman.
- Good night, Minnie.
- Good night.






I'm a big girl now, and I'm not afraid of anything.
- Well, good night, then.
- Good night.































Honey, there are beautiful modern models up there.








You know it was the last sailing ship.










- Just a minute, darling.

























What's up, sweetheart? It's all torn up.






I believe, my dear Miss More, exactly as I said Miss Reed:







My dear, Miss Mor, this story is getting more and more charming.

















Good night, Miss More.












Dear Mrs. Reid, sometimes my profession turns into a competition between a doctor and a patient.




And maybe you like this little game you're playing with me.






I need your help.



















Believe me, Irene, I'd be the happiest person on Earth if you'd told me that recently.








- Trust me, it's better this way.

- Better for who?





























































That's the second time in a while.























It's gonna be okay.













Then you'd better go.











































Good to see you.

He's the biggest slut in the state.




































You better wash your mouth, young man.









































Because you don't think it's necessary to give people things until you're sure they're happy to get them from you.


















Well, you'd better insist on a wedding before the election.




















I'm too big a man for you to do this to me.
You may be a big man, Nick, but you're gonna have to deal with it.






Okay.




















Okay.




And you should be nice to him, Janet, anyway, until after the election.
Okay, Dad, at the end of the day, he made me laugh a few times.







































A little mug of java will wake you up.




































- Good night, Mr. Henry.
- Good night.
- Good night, Paul.
- See you in the morning, Ed.








I'm getting along very well with Paul because he's on the right track.





Ed, I need help. I need the money.



























































Was that the first time you were in his apartment?


















































When I need your advice, I'll ask you myself.





I suppose you understand that for you as a politician it doesn't look the best.







































































































What's good for old Aate Ward is good for the rest of us, isn't it?




Okay, I see you don't want to.




I'm glad.

What are you happy about?
For unclear reasons, I think you're very nice.









You know, Paul is your best friend, and you're the one who found the body.


















You think you're too good for me.
So, sister, to be honest, I think I'm too good for you.




























Okay.















































- Okay.








- Good dog.




I'm offering you the best gaming place in town.












Okay.

















It's important.












That's good.





















- Maybe there are bad dreams.





























Okay, I'll work on it until you let me.




Okay.
That's not good.


We'll be back tomorrow morning.


Okay, huh?



My first wife was the second chef in a third-class pub on Fourth Street.































- I'm glad.

















What you read this morning is just the beginning. There's gonna be a follow-up.












- I can't. She knows you're better off.





Paul says you're much better, Mr. Beaumont.










Is your nurse treating you well?








































You better go.




- Okay.


Well, Ed, do you need anything?















- Okay.














Okay.
Thank you very much.












Hey, Rusty. The little rubber ball is back.












- That's good.

See, we needed a safe place because we weren't sure we didn't kill you.
I'm so glad you stopped by, Mr. Beaumont.











Baby, you look like you're ready for another beating, aren't you?















Imagine a huge headline on the front page of "The Observer":







I'm afraid so, darling.



















He can't do anything, the Observer will be out tomorrow morning.
Good night, Kid.
Are you going to bed, darling?

The little rubber ball is doing the right thing, huh?





I'm fine here.


































Look, the Observer is preparing a bomb this morning.



























Okay.


We need to get more against these anonymous letters.









































The worst part is, you've been quiet this whole time.



I need Janet Henry.
Ed, I need her more than anything in my life.
















What good would that do?







You still think you're five times better than Paul and four times better than me.














































- Let's have a little drink.



Little room downstairs, too small for you to fall down there.



























I brought my best friend in the world here for a drink, and we're sitting here waiting half an hour until that lousy waiter comes.











































































I'm just a big, kind-hearted man.





















It was beautiful, Ed.









- Just good advice.


Tomorrow, Paul's gonna be cleared of all charges you've brought against him, and the first guy who's gonna answer for it is you.


Okay.









And second, and more importantly, Paul didn't kill young Henry.


















































































Okay, get upstairs and stay there until she gets dressed.

I think you'd better make another warrant, Mr. Farr.



















Glad you won, Paul.













No matter what you said, something always told me you were lying.












































I bet the old lady's gonna start talking.



Yeah, I've been watching all morning.














For a man who has dedicated the last 30 years of his life to a selfless struggle for justice.



















Tell the old lady she has guests.









Very well, you can go.


























I wish you a good day.


She's just an old chatter who wants to be the center of attention.






She's a very old lady.

I'm old.
Very old.


















Good job.














Some good, some bad.




And then you and I, two old ladies could exchange impressions.





The worst idea is the idea of aging.
You forgot how important it is to stay young.















You know, girl, you need more judgment and spirit.
Yeah, that's what you need.



























"It is an honor to be of service to you.
"I'm very sorry to lose sight of the fact that you grew up without a mother, and there was no one to teach you how to be a good wife."




































It's a very important conversation.
But, Delilah, I need a book.






They point us at a great place for a big new city.
And the public buildings, gentlemen, are all grouped around a large area, with fountains and trees.







Beautiful and beautiful, like an unexpected smile.











I'm sure. You'll be happy.
















He was a man of great insight.








Big army, more taxes.
Our country is big enough without it.


This country will be bigger.

















































Good night.



Looks like you need the whole library.




Yes, darling?













Don't make a fool out of Delilah, darling.









Come on, honey.

Good night, my sugar.

In the morning.





























I think we'd better get back.































































One or two simple papers, my dear, a dollar.













This looks like a good place to camp for the night.




Well, I mean, you get up in the morning.



















It's beautiful.








A big city could grow up here.







Thousands of people are creating new and shiny things.

Not everything needs to be said.





My dear Mr. Hoyt, the railways are worth money.






















You're gonna make a lot of money on this.






I know her father. Beautiful man.
It's a nice house in Philadelphia.


She deserves better.






We need to clean the rabbits, Ethan.
Well, Mr. Frisbee wants you to sign this document, darling.
Rabbits can wait, darling.
It's important.
There's nothing more important than dignity, Ethan.

Please, darling.


























































Ethan, how much gold do you need?




So, it takes money to get there.
How much do you need?
















































You'd better be careful.




And very beautiful.








I'm completely drunk with one look at the most adorable little killer who's ever owned my heart.






We need everything.













Dinner's almost ready.




There's a lot to give up if we want to leave tomorrow.













Eight beautiful and scary years.

It was a beautiful time when Ethan and I were alone and terrible when he was away.

























For the past eight years, he had nothing to do with anything but himself.




















In the morning.







Let's wait till morning with this.



Okay.

Same old story.

























Big legs, but small mind.










































































Okay, I'm gonna go.













Last flight from Sacramento, Mr.







Isn't that a good thing?





























Small, on the roof.




My lovely babies.


Oh, my God, I must be the oldest woman in the world.






































Good to see you.
























It's better this way.


All I want is for him to build a big city to become a great man.








Where all the little angels sleep.








One of our best shows, sir.
















It's a pleasure. I'll show you around, Senator.









A special table with the most beautiful croupier.
She helps lose money with great pleasure.















About sweet old Delilah, and about Bettin and Percy, too.


Good woman. I mean Bettin.
Father, it's great to see you.















He's got a great reputation.
Beautiful house.













Against dreamers who think Hoyt City buildings are more important than building a railroad.




For the last time...





















I object to the last comment because it is a baseless slander!





We're little people, but we're trying to build something big.

Friends, please forgive me for just a few final words in response to my old friend and congressman, Hank Allen, who reminds me of the dog I had when I was a boy.




It was a pretty unhappy little old squirrel, but it was still a squirrel, and I needed her skin to make a hat. I made it myself.










I came here a month ago to live in the same little hibara I built 21 years ago.















What a weird, beautiful night.







Little twin kittens.

























A beautiful, bright world we started building once.


































Help them create something beautiful and free of charge.

















Poor old Stilly.

















They need help, notice, and then all of a sudden they're... doing it on their own.



























I need news.





Sure, and I'll be happy to help?




Okay, Ethan.
Everything's fine.













Come closer, sweetheart.





































- Okay.





Very good.


- Well, that's good, I'm proud of you, Perry.




Okay.



Nice dress.









Of course it must be beautiful.












Except I'm not that cute.























There's something more important right now.



















That's nice, isn't it?

What's the cute look?





So many nice gifts.













And 85 in the city, as the last receipt says.


































Uncle, darling, I'm sorry I'm late.











I'd feel more comfortable if you were a better driver.











Uncle, darling.




That's beautiful, darling.

How about a kiss for your old uncle?







You better keep your purse tight.








At the time, it was a good building, but now is not the time for sentiment.
You can't use good land for nothing.














Peter, how nice.











He's old enough.
And I'm not sure he's as good as they say he is.
















You little cocktail.


I think you realize how cute you are.



















Stanley, what is it, darling?








That's not good.

Maybe tomorrow morning.


















If you tell me where you're going, I'll help you pack up like a good wife.






































Even when I was little, I hated any need.

We're good, Roy, the best thing that can happen to anyone.
A lot better than I deserve.
I wasn't a good husband, but I love you.




- Hey, honey.


He gave you and Stanley a wonderful gift.





Honey.









You're so sweet, Craig.
It's too nice.
Good morning, Mr. Timberlake.



























Who and where was the last one to see her?

But this morning, she left with things.








































What difference does it make when a person needs something?


We'd better go straight home.



















































What could be better?


No, I'll take what I need.
Just like Stanley takes what she needs.
Just like Uncle William takes what he needs.


That's how you get happy.






- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.






































We should be happy, Stanley.
We should be happy.
Stupid, we're already happy.

Of course we're happy.









It's good to have a steady income.
What did you do with your first paycheck, Perry?


















He can keep his job, or lose his job, but he can't get more.





Mom's worried the coloured guy has too much ambition.








- Good night, Miss Roy.



- Okay.

- It's not bad either.
- And it's beautiful, isn't it?
- Yeah, it's fine.









































- No, it doesn't matter.

















It's a beautiful state of affairs.







- I understand, my dear.















- Okay.


I heard a lovely swing there.



You're so sweet.
Honey.

- Imagine me as a good wife.

- I'm so sorry, darling.

- It's okay.
- No, it's not okay.






















Isn't that right, darling?




























Congratulations and goodbye.







- Please, darling, it's too late.


- I'm supposed to be in the hospital in the morning.















Honey, do you know what you're doing?




- Okay.



Honey.



To make a good wife?

Honey.
You're all I need.

Honey.
Honey.
Am I all that, darling?
















It's not that important, though.






- It's better without a name.
- Okay, no name.
It's an old house by the road, about 20 miles from here.


























We're lighting a new fire.


I'd like it to be something big.































- No, I'd better go.




- Forget it, darling.





She's my best friend in this town.
- Then you better make some more friends.






Last time I operated, I noticed my hands.

































Good to see you.

























In the meantime, let's just be happy.



I've done so much good for Stanley's fraud.










Yes. And more than that, these houses are good and they're 50 years old.













A young man before you give up on my offer, you'd better think about your future.


I'd be happy to know how.












The faster the better.
Honey.














Okay, somebody's coming from us.





Bad news.
















Roy, darling.


Stanley's in bad shape.













Maybe I should go to Baltimore.







I'm so glad you're here, Miss...?




- It's better now.


His brother arrived this morning.



She'll be happy to leave this house.










Stanley, darling.










They don't need me.
Nobody wants me.
They really need you.













You loved me when I was little.





























I'll feel better.

I'll feel better.

It's gonna be okay.
In time, it's gonna be okay.
It's gonna be okay.






Don't worry, darling.















- Okay.



Beautiful when someone's happy.



They look happy.


Where are you going, darling?

Be careful, darling.




















Hello, darling.






- Good night.




It's impossible to see others happy when I'm so unhappy.












We were sure there was something more important.


The remnants of an old disease. I guess it's nothing serious.
But I'll be calm if he turns to John Hopkins and gets tested.



- Stanley, darling.







- Uncle, darling.


























I'm better now.












Uncle, what a little drink.











Uncle, darling, what are you gonna leave me after you die?





















I offered to invest in new equipment.
















We come for what we need.




Uncle, darling, I'm so unhappy.






















- Uncle, darling.






Okay.


It's not good to be old.
It's worse to be alone.





You can live in this beautiful house.















- Okay.
















- I need the money to leave.





















- I don't think that's good, Stanley.



























- Good morning.

















Nothing, darling.
















What is it, darling?







Stanley, darling.



They're better off knowing the truth from the beginning.


A little girl died.









































- Now it's important to get to the bottom of this situation.


- I'm gonna go see Perry's mother first.















































All she wants is to be happy.
It doesn't matter what the rest of us pay for it.













I opened a new bottle.








Peter said I was the best driver he'd ever seen.



























She says you called Perry and said you shouldn't wash the car. Because you need her.










You need the truth.
Okay. Let's see how you like her.





















Anyway, it'll be nice to get out of the house.




I need to come in for a few minutes.







All right, then.















You told me not to take the car because. You needed her.












All you have to do is say you took the car.







- All you have to do is say...











I need to go somewhere else.

A little girl carried a bouquet of nails when she was hit.

Okay, Craig.

It's better if you bring it yourself.
It'll be better.







You didn't see a woman and a little girl.









































Okay.










































Okay.






I'm gonna be okay, Mom.










It's still in you, like an old disease.

You said you needed me.

I really need you.








Uncle, darling.






















Uncle, darling, why don't you answer?































A woman at a high speed didn't fit into the turn.
















Dear Stephanie, if this letter is found on me... and if it comes to you, you have to believe everything and try to understand.












We need to talk business.





Go if you want, darling.









I know a better place.












I have to go back.

























That's what I need... the help of a volunteer.













I need to call my wife.








We need to get my coat.











He's a big patriot!
















Your government has entrusted you with an important mission.



You know you have very important information.














































We have to arrest him!
Yeah, but we need to find it first.
We need to get you back to America.
I'll come back myself, you don't have to do anything.
Hurry people run the risk of coming last.











My dear, you will be on this train or on another train, and you will be dead before you arrive in Batumi.
It's the safest way to leave Turkey.





You're very important to my country.
Let me defend the interests of my country as I see fit.







- It's the best way.















It's a good thing it's okay!




Then you'd better take this.



Put it in your pocket, you'll be more comfortable with it.




It's just, you have to pull the trigger.


You have to go.






Most of the cow.


Such a trip could be... a good disguise for you.








Being a soldier has good sides.

They need him as an official.













































Our tobacco is the best.






















Stephanie, you knew that when you married me, there's nothing special about me, I'm a good engineer, but I'm not a hero.



I had to talk to someone, I was alone.




Good German. From the old Germany.






















You don't have to listen to this!




The breasts in the crosses are better than the head in the bushes.























I play, but not very well.
















"Dear, I only think of you, and I dream of you at night."






All right, sir.
















We have a new passenger.







































You need to go to your quarters.











You're the one who needs to go, you're the sick one.










There was a good speaker.















Worse still, during the strike at the factory, I supported the strikeers.










Are you feeling better?





We have to feel sorry for him!
Mrs Matthew's right, there's bad ventilation here.





Honey, I see when a man is scared.


He has a small face and a gray mouth.



A little walk?


That's a really bad joke.





















- Not good enough.
































And for an old man, change means death.








I think it's best to keep it for Mavrodopoulos.
















Tomorrow, after arriving in Batumi... you will be placed in a small private hospital.






You, for example, don't know what Colonel Hucky thought was necessary... to send one of the agents here to watch you.












Get up first and wait.

Okay.



























Tomorrow morning, before the ship arrives at the port, you must go to room 5 at the end of the corridor.


















I don't have any trust, I need to confuse him.




I'll be right back, darling.
- I need your help.

- We need to get a message.

























She's cute, but unwieldy.















Well, darling, is everything okay?














Good morning.













I didn't see Kuvetli this morning.









She arrived this morning.














I'll tell you everything, but I have to take a bath first.



You were supposed to be here in the morning.





You have a lot to discuss.




If you need to talk business, don't worry about me.




Where are you going, darling?







A very nice man we came with.

















It's even better.

















































I need to dry my hair so Dad doesn't know.

You're very beautiful, Cassie.



I think you're the most beautiful girl in the whole school.










If you want my opinion, you'd better go to the Gordons.
Anna, Parris can decide what's best and what's not.






















But Grandma said to be polite, Dr. Tower.



















We don't need him.






























- Okay!














































































He says it's best for me.
















How do you like my new horse and crew?



















It'll be the first time.





Speaking of which, I last saw Cassie when we were in high school.













Last door.


I heard your mom was bad. I'm so sorry.






































So we need to finish this as soon as possible.



Madame has a few months at best.











- Good night, my friend.
- Good night.












Do you have to read them all?










Most of the time he doesn't even notice me.








Good night, my dear.

- Good night, Anna.
- Good night, Parris.































Hey, Drake, good to see you.



































What does this old jerk have against me?






















I think it's time to look old senile in the eyes.














































































These images visited me most of the time.









You've always been the best.

You're so beautiful, Cassie.
Really. You're even prettier than before, though you've always been the most beautiful girl in town.



















I'll call home in the morning and tell you I spent the night at your place.


- So you better tell me where you've been.




















- It's more than just a girl, madam.











It's only gonna make him worse.









- Parris is a good boy, madam.















Something bad, but I don't know what.
This feeling has haunted me all the time lately.





























- Dr. Gordon's a good doctor?









I'm glad to hear that from you, sir.









Philosophy isn't so bad sometimes.





It's a new field of action.
Even a new word: psychiatry.


- I think it's a pretty big field, sir.
- Maybe too big.













In the 16th century, man was much happier and more comfortable than he is now.























I wouldn't be surprised, young man, if you'd become a good doctor.









It's better than you think, Parris.




























Parris, I needed to see you.



- if it wasn't important.




I've never noticed how small you are before.



I forgot how good it is.

































Oh, honey!
It's probably even harder, I wish I hadn't said it.



But I'm glad you decided to tell me.
It's important, Cassie, when there's no one...


- A little bit, it doesn't matter.




You're the sweetest, the best.












Oh, honey!
Honey, honey.
Maybe it's the last time I see you.


I intend to be a good doctor, great if I can.





























It's been really nice of you, Drake, to put up with me all these days.































I have a lot of work to do.









I have to go.





Good night.























You need to sleep.











I need to tell you something, but have some coffee first.











I heard about it on the radio early this morning, called the newspaper, confirmed it.











We were probably the last to see her alive.






I know you can't wait to act, but just let me go first.


After that, you can do whatever you want.































- Is there anything else you need to add?









You don't have to talk to Parris now, do you?











































- Here's a recording, almost at the beginning: "Today I noticed the first sign at Cassandra's."


I guess not more than Mrs. Tower did when Dr. Tower married her for love.
- She had only the first signs, the beginning of early dementia.






































If you ever need me, my Liebchen, I'll be happy...













I'm not ready to make plans.





Randy, did anyone ever tell you that you're the most beautiful girl in the world?




My dear friend.
- He's a good guy, isn't he?
- The best.












- Because it's big.















What's wrong with a kiss?



Happy new century, you fool!
Here it is, darling.














Do you want me to show you what I think is a good idea?








- Yes, darling.







Smell of flowering plums, sunshine, moonlight, morning, day, night.







The best thing about you, darling,




- What's wrong with that?













I was a terrible little bully, wasn't I?













- Drake, my new hat!




































- I'm not good enough for...



They don't think I'm good enough for you.





























Why do you have to decide?





























And most of what they're saying is true.





































I need to tell you a few words, Mr. Manehan.















You don't have to.
I gave myself my word this morning when I woke up in a cell with three others like that.
I need a job, Mr. Manehan.











































When you were a little bitch, I often thought you'd grow up to be.










Thank you, sweetheart.
So whose news is it first?













"Dear Drake, I'm glad to hear you're doing okay, and everything's going like this... "It's okay to miss it.




- I love your beautiful pride, darling.








I guess I'll be the first... "Well, that's the word again.

Parris can be trusted to be first.























I know, darling.
I'm happier than I have the right to be.





- I'll wait for you to say good night.

- Bye, honey.


































- What do you want to do, doc?



- I'll help you, Doctor, tell me what you need.







- Okay, and pull the curtains.















































- That's better.




- Good night, then.
You need to get out of here.
























Well, we don't need them, do we?









Yes, darling, but don't talk about it now.



A letter for you, narcissist. I thought maybe something important.











Just so you know, you're the best graduate in the last few years.












You can celebrate tonight. They say the new dancer at the Cryon Hotel is divine.


















- Drake, are you okay?



See, honey, I'm never gonna get up.

- It's a great comfort.






I just needed to figure something out for myself.






That morning, when you came to ask Pa to help you with your job...










He'll be happy, Drake.







When I decided to be a psychiatrist, I didn't realize I had to write my first prescription for my favorite friend.





Use it to take the first step.




Dear Parris.





I don't need charity.
- Okay, darling.
















And you're a better man than most people I know.































I need to see Drake.



- Okay.




- Oh, Parris, I'm so happy!


Oh, I don't know... better.
I think it's better.










So, what do you think of your old town?










- It's even better, huh?




- That's very nice, sir...

Don't tell me it's worse than Europe.










We really need a new doctor, now that Dr. Gordon's dead.















Gordons haven't been seen much lately.
























When my dear husband was lying here in this room,







































He needs to be looked after, you know.

































Did you think you could only make it worse?




































- So she doesn't need your help.




You think it's best to let her make a scandal?








































































































A little less, but that was to be expected.





It's a pleasure to welcome you, Dr. Mitchell.















Better next time.

















Good night, sir.













There's a bed next to a big window.

I'm glad this is your room now.
And I'm glad you live here.
Good night.




Good night.





Most of them are bought out by workers from the quarry.





I can see how we're getting ugly old rich.



You know what you need to do when you start a new precinct?
You need to save a few lots for yourself and move into a new house.
























Are you gonna be okay, Drake?



















I tried to get him to move to the first floor at least.
I know he's sick in there.




















After the accident, I had to answer myself a very important question.



I was really afraid I'd love him less.



"You have to remember that Drake has a whole different life now, that his whole relationship with her, and everything about him has changed."



A strong, new, calm love that completely changed the old passion and that will last forever.












































I guess we better know if we shouldn't.
























And that's the only thing that matters.











Louise needs to be silenced, Parris.





































If I can't cure my best friend...

He's your best friend.












"A new breakthrough in the news is linked to the use of a wireless telegraph..."



You're gonna have the worst buzz you've ever seen.













































I thought you wanted to build a new house, sweetheart?





The dry underwear of children is like tiny flags and flints, whipping with joy, welcoming a small nation, a nation of babies, and children.




There is a special law under which assistance must be given to any mother who needs help whether she is married or not.




It's prepared for every woman who needs help.





There's a chair behind each of these doors waiting for women who need help.








































Herna became calm and confident.


She thinks less of herself.



Yeah, that's better.




In the last six weeks before delivery,




Herna and her baby spend the first few months after birth completely free of charge.

Erna's kid gets a lot better care than he could get home.







What a cute boy.

















He always walks like that, poor little nigger.
Erna's had a hard time, and the Christian needs new clothes.










Good clean rooms for only $15 a day."

- But I need a room!









I need a gun, a drink and a gold commissioner...
























You'd better think it over.








Soon, they're gonna fall into big...








- Good morning, Cherry. - Harry.



Good morning, Seth.







I need information on the property rights of the precinct registered to Blin Simms. Simms?














Beautiful place to store my papers. It's a question of subsequent access.














And I need their testimony as proof.















I don't know him personally, but I see he has good taste.












Always a pleasure. Quick job.


















































I wish there were colours on the ship.

She made that old saloon bloom!












- Roy! The old sinner!

Good to see you, baby. How are you?
















I think you'd be happy to have the law and order in Noma.















Your girl's ready to kill now.







































- Glad to hear the judge's here!


We have a small town, so we'll see each other again.








It's not nice to disappoint a nice old lady like Mrs. Smith...




I'm not the best man in the world. Why me? Who knows?


























But Miss Cherry, we gave him the best years of our lives!

What do you do with beautiful eggs that are cooked?
If you want to do more than I do, try to sit them down.

















Yeah, but Cherry's much better than her.




















He's a bad actor and he's killed.


You're as beautiful as ever, Miss Malotte.


Is the map coming, boys? Bad.

I'd rather snatch the cards.





- Not now. But you don't have anything to do, there's so much new...





Poker is the main good change.









If the players get together for a new game, I'm at the bar, Cherry.





Look, honey, I hope you don't want me to apologize and make excuses?



You can eat less, but you can't feed your hunger!




















If there are complaints, you'd better go there.

















Good guy, this Glennister. The pants, really, wouldn't you caress...





























This country needs order and discipline.
















































And if Dex is right, how about your little friend Miss Chester?
She's a nice girl.







New dress!










But I think it's time to understand each other better.











Beautiful gesture, huh?
































We don't need a problem.






Good morning, gentlemen.
I wish my first visit was official.




A reasonable judgment is the best guarantee.



As soon as the trial opens on Monday morning, I promise I'll take care of your case immediately.































If he gives his last pants to the enemy, he's not my partner!











Okay, I'm lying.




If the news were good, you wouldn't bother us.
Glennister had a little safe on the mine.



























Fine, that's what we're gonna do.


























For the first time, the old man didn't miss, Dex.








































- Old asshole thief!



















I told you that old rat was a crook.























We took care of it. It takes money to get to Seattle and go to court.









Big, handsome guy, isn't he?














- No, that's a good idea.


You don't look good, sweetheart.











Good to see you.


- Yeah, I'd like you to join us.





What if after you sailed, you saw a man in a small boat five miles off the coast? Would you take him aboard?



























That's a good idea, baby.






- Are you okay? - Even better than before.




We don't need victims...










































I'd better wash the tan and wash my shirt first.

























We thought we'd find him here, but I don't think he's done it! We're happy to see him like anyone else as long as he's good.
He knew we'd come here first because he had a special interest.




If you knew me better, you'd realize I never played on the loser's side.


























It's a good idea to put a face on.














Beautiful. It's yours.


















Shouldn't we call a soldier?


Maybe we should get out of here.








I don't like your point of view lately.


Go on, tell us what beautiful people lived here before we all screwed up!



































And if so? He needs you.

































I don't need anyone else.













Very good.
















I am prepared to confirm that this comment is not valid by leaving for my room without anyone's help.





































Oh, Miss Cherry, it's so good to see you!



















Good morning, people!






I think I'll feel better if I get on the couch.



Such a good man!




We're gonna get the mine back tonight and we're gonna need your train.

That's why we need a train. You gotta be crazy to hit the fence.

If it explodes, you'll get a new one. So get some steam ready.



You old liar, don't pretend you're on the side of the law.





















- It's all set.
























A good wine and a charming woman.


































The most expensive thing is what you dream of, Mr. McNamara.












Yeah? You're worse.




















































Dad said he'd give it to me for the good marks.









































- Good morning.

- Nice, very nice.


- Bad dress?
- Too good.










- Honey, the dress sucks.

























- So it's a bad portrait.
Tell you what, Mr. Dobash, I'm a small man and I have to obey.






















In the first act, you walk and you don't talk, and in the second act.










- Do something good.



Honey, you were right this morning.
I felt so bad that I asked Dobash to write your name first on the poster of a new play.
Isn't that right, darling?
That's so sweet, though I don't care.

But, honey, you know how I feel about you.
I'm even ready...

- Really, sweetheart?














Joseph, honey, I swear to you, I don't know who the flowers are from.
Thank you, darling.



He's sitting in the second row again, and he looks better.

He's cute, but he can't stand it.




















"Dear Lieutenant..." Don't judge me, Anna.
































































- What's worst for an actor.
- What happened, darling? What?


- Of course not, darling!















I have some bad news.





















Maria, yesterday, when we were flying, I watched you and noticed that you were looking at me with great sympathy.

























Oh, no, honey, no.
You're a good woman, and you're, of course, sorry for him.


















































The new feeling was taken over by the Poles.
























- Thanks for the lovely lunch.










- Stay calm.






But I'm going on a very important mission and I can't risk it.
























































































- I'm ready.


















- We need Mrs. Maria Toura.







Okay.












- That's so sweet.













I'd love to meet you in person.






In the theater, it's important not to make a mistake picking a role, isn't it?

And in life, it's even more important to make the right bet.




You see, we know a lot of people in Warsaw, but there are people we don't know very well, and we'd like to know better.








Mrs. Toura, we wouldn't even think of putting such a lovely lady at risk.










Our job is to create a happy world on Earth.



























- I'm much better now.



















- Siletsky's going to Gestapo in the morning.






























- I hope your home country's worth more than yours.












I'm ready to die for the Fuhrer anytime.










And the best way to start a scout's trade is with champagne.
























































- Nice to meet you.











- Okay.



- It's more about restraint, Toura.







- Good to see you. - Nice to meet you, too, Colonel.

- Thank you. I'm so glad you're here.
And I, Colonel, am happy to breathe Gestapo air again.










And tomorrow morning, I'll send copies to Berlin.












Okay.










- Ask me if I'll be happy.










Well, that's fine.







- Okay.



- Okay.














































You're an old Gestapo, and you've given the Polish instructions from the enemy.


















Do you mind if we get back to the old subject?













This is your last chance.

























Nice to meet you, Captain.


You forgot to order me to let go. But I'm happy I waited for you.














The Gestapo sometimes works untired day and night to find someone. And before I could get to Warsaw, I found the sweetest lady here.


















- Yeah, I know. - I'll be at his place in the morning.







Oh, honey!
Honey!






But you know I can only play when I'm calm.
Maria, darling, tell me frankly, I need to know.

- Oh, honey, honey, I love you!



























...how incredibly happy I am to breathe the air of Gestapo again.




I'll tell you a secret, Professor, your old friend, the Fuhrer, is going to Warsaw.
I know you'll be happy to see him again.


























...and Hitler's name will remain a new kind of cheese for centuries!

















I already have the key. We're gonna have to find the keyhole. It's better.






































...and as important as Revansky.















I think you need to get back to London soon. - London?





























Well, it hurts if I don't fit, but the interests of the case are more important.































- Well, of course, if you need me.
- But I need to get to know you.






And don't despair, sweetheart.











































- Well, I'm glad. - Yes.


It's a pleasure.











































- All right, Schultz, all right!



































When I arrived this morning, I discovered in an hour a conspiracy threatening the Fuhrer.





































This is our last chance to escape.


We need to distract them for a little while.
















I'm ready.

- Well, good.
- Yeah, he's so sweet.


- Oh, darling, goodbye!















- What does he want from us?
What does he want from Poland?

























































- But I don't have such a cute beard.


- It's a good thing I didn't pick her up.




































I don't need eggs.





















No matter how small she is.


















With the most sophisticated weapons, combated and trained by officers in the tradition of the Corps, U.S. Marine Corps soldiers are rightly considered to be the best Marines in the world.



- This pattern shows the first battle of Marines on foreign soil.
Four officers and 16 sailors fought twice as many bastards in Tripoli they taught African pirates a lesson that they would never forget.





I know grabbing a big sailboat doesn't tell you much, but I wanted to draw your attention to the man who set his head up instead of Stephen Decatur.

























What do you want?

















- You must be a good man.


Your old friend Chris Winters."








It's even better.




We'll talk about it tomorrow at 5:00 a.m.











This is my last night of freedom, and this is what I do.











Good night.

I'm afraid you won't be interested in the story of the Gobi desert trip. Have a nice day.





































- Looks like a meeting of old friends.










































This is the first time I've seen you!










- Last kiss.





- Good night and goodbye.







- It's so good to see you.







- Good morning, Roberts.
- Good morning, Sergeant.



No, I told a rookie to show up at 5:00 a.m., or I...














































Beautiful pictures, aren't they, sir?
I've seen a lot of little bastards like you.






Look at this old cockroach 'cause you won't see him soon.


Last time I thought he was enough.















































First squad, round, march!



First squad, round, march!






















Better now, Dant.























It can't be worse, it's all milk.




Is it so important for you to be a Marine? Does it matter?














But he knows you're gonna be the best Marine.


























Okay, ma'am, I'll make sure there's no such misunderstanding anymore.

Good night.


























- Okay.
- Are you feeling better? - Yes, sir.



I'm better now, I can even sit down.





It's better now.














You'd better get some rest.













Maybe he can sleep well, sleep well and be healthy. - I'm gonna teach him a lesson. - Don't be, Sergeant.







- We'll wait tomorrow morning.







- Is that better?







It's better this way.
Oh, my God, that's good.
I'm gonna need to get you a tire, see if your legs are broken. - You're so sweet.
- I hope it's better tomorrow.
















- I don't need water! I'm dying!

Easy, you need to get some sleep.


- I don't need it!


Is he worse?
























Beautiful experience.



- Is it so important to you?


- You understand how important this is to me.

















Sweetheart... it's all worked out. Well, okay.





- I have to fill my pocket first.
- I had to break up with a Marine.





Honey!







Excuse me... you're so sweet.
























Honey, take it, please.



















- Yeah, great paycheck, great work schedule.


Then you have to agree.

I think they'll be happy to get rid of this...

- I have to go back.








I bet I'm the first Marine to kiss a lieutenant.



































Put the theory into practice. - All right, Sergeant.
I'll be happy to do that.




















He's an important guy, isn't he? - That's right.









First squad, round, march! Division two, march round! Third squad, march!


















You can serve at sea, and whatever service you choose, it will be important everywhere.

















Now you're gonna have a new tent mate. - Maybe.





















And that's all after a beautiful speech about the traditions and the spirit of the Marine Corps.







Stop it, you're gonna be in big trouble!


















Good morning, gentlemen.
Beautiful morning, isn't it?




Best senior sergeant ever won anything.





Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, - Yeah, he said he hit first.





All right, let him come in.


- Sergeant Smith said he hit me first.











- Who hit first? Sergeant Smith.

















Mary, it's nice of you to lie for me, but...












It's important to me.











Honey, we're gonna be so happy.





















Good night, Saint Peter.




It's not that bad on this screen.

It's better here than the place.










Put on your old and warm clothes.








It's worse when they put them in a gun and shoot them.

I want everything ready!




























Tell the admiral to stop firing.









Okay, I'm warning you, we need to stay on schedule.










Now I can leave with a calm conscience.

- Yeah, and the faster the better.

Maybe it's for the best, Winters. And that's why:





It's the first time we've been on equal terms.
I don't have what Marines need, they don't have what I need.
Maybe it took a war or some desperate event to get one of us to do something funny.













I told him I didn't need any favors.












































As soon as you sign. - All the better.

- Honey, I've already done it.









- He only talked about you the best.











That's because we were good in Calver.










































Honey, you don't think I'm going with one toothbrush?









































- Okay.




















You better help me.



























Good morning, dear friend.





























Beautiful flowers.











Okay. Right away.




































It's not good to lie to him.

He's as tired as ever, and as always, he needs to rest.



















The difference is huge, my dear doctor.













I have the same dream... I see an amazingly beautiful woman.

I see her white silhouette... floating in the midst of beautiful landscapes.





You'll feel better.
It won't change anything. I'm fine already.






























































































Little?
























I'm as calm as a water glaze!



I've got a better offer: let's go have lunch with us.




They're the ones I have the best memories of.


It's not that bad.





My dear friend, once I lost my sight, I could see.







It's a little freaky.































You're welcome, you don't have to keep yourself waiting.


















It's your last night with your fiancé... 'cause tomorrow he's not gonna be your fiancé, he's gonna be your husband.
















It takes two to get married.










My lovely white silhouette... he asks how long I've known you.













Sweet baby, isn't it?
















Nice to meet you.

- Nice to meet you.


My assistant and I have an important business to attend to... it can't be cancelled or postponed.
















I need to give you this.
Beautiful.





















But at the last minute, I decided to resist him.










But everything's fine.




























I can't let him have such an important performance.
Okay.




Say goodbye now, and be a good boy.





You need my hand - it will protect you, my power - it will protect you from trouble.





Where we're going, we have to be at the parade.















That's better.














You gotta be ready for anything, darling.



In case some old painting loses its feelings?

Okay, I'll be right there.



Nice to meet you.








Here's our little homemade theater.













Good old Margot!


























You're his most beautiful trick.




































































It's good to see you here.




































- Do you need a victim?





Close the first sarcophagus.
































You said you weren't used to retreating at the last moment?



























































He sees in the dark, while we need light.





Woe to those who need eyes to see.






































































Crazy house doesn't need a show... just like a thug's den... charlatan!



Okay.
- She's beautiful.
































































- We don't need a cab.
































































And not a penny less.







My dear, since we're sleeping... why don't we make good use of this?











My face is as good as yours.






My past is as good as yours.







We'll finish this beautifully.









You really showed up at the last moment.






























It's better to tell you everything!


I was supposed to have a financial check this morning.










And in order to avoid a problem with the check this morning, I decided...















































My dear Irene... for our love!






I'm finally happy.
Can you hurt a happy man?
My dear Irene.






















































He lived in a small room on the first floor, on the right.













































Beautiful dream.


















It's too beautiful.





I'm the first assistant captain on this tanker, we have to join the convoy heading east, and we have loaded 100,000 barrels of high-grade gasoline into our tanks.


















It takes a lot of toothache to pay for your sins.










- We need to double surveillance on the nose and on the stern.



Here's my first lesson.
It's an old law of the sea.





When I was as old as Parker, I walked around Cape Horn as a simple camper.










First thing.
The last dish I wore was so old, I found a couple of Christopher Columbus cufflinks in my locker.














Peaches needs cream.



























- Great, thank you. - Hey, you better do your homework or the skipper's gonna put you in a corner and give you a stupid cap.
Leave it open, darling.


















































And you ran away from your new one so fast?



























On the last ship I was in, we were fed like Ritz.
Last ship?

You always praise the last ship.
When you go to sea again, this ship will be the last, and you will talk about me as the greatest chef ever to go to sea.





I took them in the last war.






















You don't need teeth to chew seawater.


















































- Yeah, I'm ready.










- You first, Mr. Rossi.














































































- Nice to meet you, Captain.




















Not when your house burns down, you get a new house.















My dear Adolf...





Oh, honey.










It was a good ship.


- Are you okay?
- Everything's fine.
Beautiful.
- You got a new suit.



- Oh, honey, I love it.
There's so much I need to say to you.






Of course, you know how bad it is to take a bath so soon after lunch.
Too bad.

It's so good here.

Sleep tight, honey.










Oh, honey.
Rest well, sweetheart.






- This morning.
Good to see you.



Hey, what do you got for toothache?









- Yeah, it feels better right away.





- New face.


























































Big hero.



































When you take a dog or a cat to sea, you have to take young ones.

















































































What good is a medal when you're thrown on a beach covered with algae?












- But that's what he needs.





















It's one of the new Freedom Courts.











It's one of those new babies.


We're gonna be the first to pick up the shell trays.



- Welcome home, darling.




















Our ship has a beautiful name for Freedom.
Many of you are now assigned to active service for the first time.
Others have been transferred to new courts.


It's a new school.

U.S. service's oldest tradition.
U.S. ships' vital supplies to George Washington's army have greatly contributed to our first victory as a free nation.









It's a new ship with a famous old name.













You look worse than you did on the raft.


Honey, I want you to meet a good friend of mine, Steve Jarvis.

Joe, I got a new ship.
You're recorded as first aid, for half an hour.



- It's an old story between Joe and me.




Old sea wolf.


























You'd better ask her.





















She's got a lot of experience with the sailor's wife.








- You need to get used to it.


This is the first time I've ever been worried.



- You need this, don't you, Joe?






Yeah, that's good.



















I'm ready, Skipper.













































I didn't recognize you in a new uniform.



And I'm glad he's with him.


Well, this one doesn't look like an old tanker, does it?












It's beautiful.





- Good to see you again.










- He's good, mister.












I'm glad you're with us, Mr. Wright.

First Officer.





I hear there's a new five-inch gun in here.






































































- Very good.
























It's very important that you find out more about these guns in case one of my guys gets hurt.






All right, guys.
Set, ready.















Set, ready!

























If they're going to add a load, you have to attach the wheels to the bottom and push it.







This is my first assistant, Mr. Rossi.
Nice to meet you.























It's good to see you all the time.
Good to see you.














































In the event of a forced dispersion of ships, you will proceed to the location of a new meeting, time and place, which is indicated in your sealed orders.



You all know what the enemy is doing to reduce the vital supply of allies.






Okay.

























I think the only thing that's important is getting the cargo to Russia as soon as possible.




































She's beautiful.











We didn't have time to take a good picture.













No matter how many planes, tanks, and guns you have, no matter how many people you have, the most important thing is to get it from the people who need it.


I'm afraid I'm too calm to be a skipper.

- Good night.
- Good night, sir.
















Ready?

















We missed the opportunity to make a beautiful fireworks.

Okay, Brown, the visibility's improving and what's going on with the convoy behind our backs.


Okay.






It's the old Danish shit on the right on the street from us.



































Thirty-eight seconds, release the first charge.





- Let's go first.
- Launch one, sir.
The first one's gone!
The first one went.










- The missile is ready, sir.









A new target on the right traverse.


























Better than two, it'll be better than a bite.














































Our first task is to get the submarine off our tail.


Mr. Rossi, double surveillance and be prepared for an emergency.









































































I need total silence on the ship.












And the first place they're gonna ask me, "What's that on your shoulder?" I'll settle down and spend the rest of my life.







Easy, baby.











- Very good.



- Okay.















I was in such a good mood when the sun rose, and that stinking boat wasn't around.
It's so nice and warm.








- You need to be charged with murder.


We're ready to bite each other's heads off right now.



- Well, then my soul is calm.
































Ready for manoeuvring.









- One's ready.
- One's ready.
























- Nice work, Parker.

We need another man here.

How much do you need, Steve?




















Okay.
Do what you have to do.
As a surgeon, you're a great first aider.








Better, Joe.























- He was a good guy.

They made him a good officer.





If you work hard, maybe you'll wear one one one one day.
Everybody's ready for duty, Steve.

I think these are the best marks in a book I've ever read.








And that's good.






First-class mentor, Michael Ahern.







I guess I knew Parker was a little better than the others.



We're taking them on the last road.





But that's not the point.













"waiting for a general resurrection on the last day,





















- Couldn't have been much damage.























- Okay.
















- I need a smoke screen.
















Steve, do you remember when the old tanker was burned, the Nazis razed our boat?














The famous last words.



















- It means, "Camrad." That's good.

This is the first time I've ever wanted to kiss a mover.











































He has a good job in Paris.

















What's new in Paris?






































In the old days, you could spit wherever you wanted.














Better get used to it if you stay.


























- It wasn't necessary.
















- Very good!







- Very good!










































- It's a good thing I have a cabin in the woods.






































Not a bad person, but he doesn't keep his mouth shut.
So he's had a sore throat lately.
He can get better if he talks less.






- She's beautiful, huh?







She was so beautiful, they called her Hoopy Beauty.































































- It's beautiful.



- It's gonna be a beautiful wedding.































































- Life is beautiful.












Get out in the morning, you and your mother!






























































Bad idea, Father.





































































































- Nice to meet you.
























































- That's good.



















- Very well, if you all agree.































There's nothing better than traveling.

















This is the best room.




















































- Who saw him the last time?
He was calm in bed.








































- Yeah, go get some rest, my good boy.






























































































































- She said he was a good man, but he didn't understand me.



































Well, not a word if you know what's best for you.























- Very good.






Good night.















- You're very nice.







































I'm sorry, I mean, how's your dear father?






- My son, Eugene. He has a good position in Paris.

















- Well, okay, Paris is a symphony.












- It's beautiful!





It is composed of Burma, the Malaya Peninsula, Siam Cambodia, the little French Kohinhinhina, Annam Laos, and up there, Tonkin.




























- Oh, you don't have to worry.







I just have a good memory. I said my answer to the school exam.
Since you have such a good memory, why don't you remember where the treasure is?








- Your land is very beautiful.




















































You're gonna ruin a beautiful love scene.














- I'm busy. - It's important!




















- I'd rather see her as an old maid.
- Is that your last word?











- Look how beautiful he is...



































































Okay, we'll figure it out.



































- Okay, we'll see about that.




His first.


- Why is he first?



































Anyway, it's an old story.
- The old bastard.














































































- Oh, that's better.






Who was the first person in the family to see you?













- Yeah, it's good.




















































































Nasty little ants.





















- That's not good.












- Don't stay here, it's bad.






















- I don't want to upset you, Emperor, but I don't think you're going to meet New Year's Eve.


- Am I that bad?

- Good stuff, but it's still bad.



















- Okay, if that's what you want.




- Very good.





















When I feel that my time has come, I will show you where the treasure of the Emperor showed me how the old Kotomka showed it to the Emperor a long time ago.

When you feel your hour is coming, you, the oldest Goupy, will show it to your son.











He's a good advertising agent.
- and a good friend.

I wish you'd put me on the front page.

I mean, you're just such a big star, and I'm just selling cigarettes. - I get it.









I thought, "Would Kiki come out tonight and walk in front of a bunch of rotos who think that a Spanish wrestler is the best thing in life?















If you're afraid, darling, I'll get him for you.






It's better in black.



















I don't need a leopard. I have talent.

Good night, Mr. Advertis.













I'm too small.
If your father comes home and the tortilla isn't ready, he'll scream.








They're big and jumping at you.










I need a bag of flour to cook my dad's dinner.


Please. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to go through the creek to the big store.







I couldn't get you away from them when you were little.


Oh, now I remember my little Teresita.

- They shouldn't have sent you.














That's what she needs.



Wait a second, darling!


















This leopard needs to be found.


I haven't been in a squad since the children's theater when Tom Mick and I were riding in the old Baiju theater.

















It's a black and bad map.



Maybe I was the last person to see her, except... her mom and her brother.








This bad card again?




I'm gonna need some money.










I need to change tonight's show, and I don't want you hanging around with your bad signs.









Our first sighting success and we throw wild animals at the audience.





He'll be pleased to meet you.

You saw him this morning.








To know where he might have gone, I'm afraid you need to be a leopard and think like a leopard.

I taught zoology in a small, freaky college in the east.


There's a small museum in town.






















If you're as talented as you are beautiful, you have nothing to worry about.





Why did you participate in the search this morning?


I heard you tell Rowbles this morning that you didn't want to go, but you did come.




I know it's best not to let others know what you really think.






















- Your business will only be better.
- Yeah, but my wife's worse.





Good morning to your birthday, señorita.


What a nice way to wake up.






I'm so happy, so happy.

Hurry up, darling, or we'll be late for Mass.















































































































I can understand why he killed the first girl.

















You don't want that cat.



























- We're old friends.
















But he quickly admitted that he killed the first girl.


















This is our last find.









You could've had the old claw and probably the wool from the cage, huh?





















We'll find a better suspect.








To inflict suffering on little girls?


















If I do this, I'd rather be detained.



If it makes you feel any better, I'll lock you up for a few days.


Scared of a big cat?
























Big ones.














- Good guy?





















































Tomorrow I'll buy you the most beautiful dress in the world.










You'd better stay home and rest.



- I called this morning.




































It's a good feeling.




It's a big local celebration.














- How kind of you, Mr. Helbraith.
- He's a nice guy.



















You're gonna be sick later.








It's good what you think of us.













I want this town to be nice and quiet again.
I'm a bad detective, Kiki.




































And this is where the creek puts me in the big canyon.



























Nice face and a soft smile.







Easy, kid.














But I need help finding out.
- Mr. Galbright, I'm so glad you came.


It is a reminder to people of the great tragedy that took place here so that they would not forget the peaceful Indian village that was destroyed by the Conquistadors in the 17th century.











































































A small, fragile body with soft skin.

















They're pushed by more forces than they are themselves.

Only we were too young to understand.















































But I'm not going to my family's house, I'm going on an important business.

































That's where I see the most beautiful bird in the world!










I see in the water a beautiful woman who is the most beautiful in the world!






























































And yet you and I are in a better position...





















It's due this morning, and he has nothing to pay.
















































Okay!
Very good!
Wow, Bull-Boul, you're making great progress!




















But I need 20 years to do it!"








Friends, I need 400 tangs right now, exactly 400.





Why don't you take this tube from me, it's a new one.





























But... the belt, it's a brand-new belt.
Don't... don't take a whole belt and a new belt, you can't see through it!























































I wanted the most beautiful girl in Bucharest and today she'll be my... hear?




























































It's the most beautiful thing in the world!

















I want this girl brought to us tomorrow morning!



































There's a beautiful rose in your garden.



































Okay, I'll try to find Nasreddin.






Okay, I'll bring you Nasreddin!














































































And then, I'm old.




I wish I hadn't been born!

Allah's harem is no worse than the Emir.






































































Why are we paying you a big salary?












But you will believe, Hussein-Huslia, this morning we left our belt in the garden, our favorite belt.




































































What's your new prisoner?





Yeah, well, it's a good torture to stretch your teeth, but...

A new torture?
Good torture!
















All I need is a hand.





I'm the new sage, starring and healer of the Emir.





















He only thinks about you day and night, darling.




Calm down, Guljan!









- Very good!






Okay!
























What a good torture!














































It's gonna be okay.

























































If there's such a cover-up, we should justly cut off his head first.




























It's best to burn alive at the stake!














I'd rather die than know our Nasreddin is captured.
It's better for us all to die than to know that he will be executed, our Nasreddin!































Just at the south gate, on the other side of the cemetery, there are three old tombs located in a triangle.














- So we're gonna have to if we're gonna get in.











































































Let your sleep rest!








You're not sleeping, darling.

You're not offended, are you, darling, that I'm late?





I want you to be beautiful.


What's in it for me, darling?













You have to be ready for anything. But you have to hope.











She was beautiful, and with such a good husband...










- I haven't seen a more beautiful pearl necklace yet.






This was done by a specialist. The work of our city's best jeweler.








































































Beautiful, very beautiful.


























I wish I hadn't bought it. Then Madeleine wouldn't have done it.







- I need brown half-bots.




Shops are a beautiful thing. There's everything the heart wants. There are couples at any price.













I need to buy something for dinner.

We're gonna pick a table, and we're gonna get ready.

Goodbye. - I'd love to.


























It's a good one.










We'll start a new life.

But we're gonna have to be together from night to morning... from morning to evening.



















Listen! My address! The old bridge has seven.







Can we wait until the next minute starts?




Early spring. The first soft green birch is trembling against the background of the shining sky.














The first attempt failed.























































Very nice. But what does that have to do with me?



Now I need... your friendship.









A melody of happy love.
















You don't need me anymore.













Did you buy yourself something, darling?


There's a lot of good stuff in the shops.







Where are you, darling?


I was rehearsing a new version with Madame.



I just don't feel this new tone.














It's a good thing you're here.









But that's a lot! - But when I need you, you're not around.














Bring a little suitcase, I'll get it.







- It's better for both of us.



Are your whims more important to you than your job?





























This is the first time I've left you alone. Aren't you afraid?




























And the old novel will be forgotten long ago.




















It's very important.



























- Unfortunately, not very well.




You're young, you're good, you're happy in marriage.

It's beautiful, but it's not a story.























































Wouldn't it be better if we broke up?



















Good morning, madam.













I didn't realize... how glad you were to have me back!
















It's almost done. And the dishes are washed.





- A little rehearsal.





















What do you want?

Since the first meeting. Until yesterday, I thought I was hopeless.















I think I'd win today. It's an itch in the thumb.










- And you won't be offended, darling?













I'm happy.

"Your wife described you so nicely to me that I wondered how best to apply your abilities."
















Your husband thanked me for my new position.






























Are you happy? There were no tickets to the circus.


You've been a little nervous lately.



















Are you happy? You did everything you wanted to do tonight.





Good night, Michael.



He usually comes first. Where is he? He usually comes first.


Now he can buy his bunny new necklaces.



Good morning. Please give me the day off.






























You stood up on a cloudy meadow this morning, a shot was fired, and the survivor restored his honor.
















































It's better than here anyway, so let's go.



































Nice to meet you.












- Our tank is one of the first.















I'm afraid this desert is the worst place in Libya.








It's better to stay here than run in a tin coffin.

First, we don't run, but follow orders.










You have good cigarettes.


It's a good tank.



































We need to protect the fuel as much as the water.









At worst, the front will be in Tobrook.









- My throat needs more water.










We have this poster on the biggest house.






Would you like to see a beautiful girl?










I'm glad you remember that.




















We were attacked by a large convoy of tanks and cars.

































He writes about big mountains, big houses, great art.
- Everything's big in America!
















That's a good picture.












We've got a long way to go, every baby and drop is important.





























































































































- Very bad, sir.






























We need every man and every tank.




















































People need water, Herr Captain.



We really need water.

- All right, Sergeant, very good!

Water takes time.


































- That's good.
- Okay?
That's so much better!






...and I don't understand who's right. Three wives are bad, too.

















He's a big man, he sounds like a storm.




















And the eyes are so big!



























- We make the best cheese in the village.



There is no second village like this, and no cheese is better than ours.































































































We've learned that these Germans are scouting a battalion at the first well. They really need water.
Imagine a battalion so in need of water that it's ready to walk another 70 miles.
























I know how you feel, maybe even better than you.


























We need food, they need water.







- I'll be happy, Sergeant.





I swear I won't do anything wrong.


























I'll eat oatmeal in the morning.














- It's a good thing the Krauts had mines. - Yes.





- All set? - That's right, Joe.
























- Okay.




















I'll give you one last chance.







And they're worse off than we thought.
They're willing to let us go in exchange for water.






- Okay, but don't get hot, okay?


















Look, it's full of water, but it's not where it's supposed to be.


- It's okay. As I recall, one acre needs 15 cubic feet of water for irrigation.




- I can't think of a better education.
I've dialed at least 5,000 books.
























It takes an artist, and I'm just a mechanic.



No! No! I'd rather live my life in this filthy hole than run off to fight for something I don't believe in.
























That's the last word.








If you don't like the terms and you still need the water, go and get it!


































- It's gonna be okay, Jim.












As they say, "All good things will come to an end."













































I'm so glad! How's Lulabelle?































































































Maybe even better than she is.

Old letters?




- Thank you, darling.
























Ask the restaurant owners. They remember Miss Jacqueline.











- She's very beautiful.












A beautiful car arrived once.
A beautiful woman in a fur coat came out of her.















It's very important.



















He's a good guy, miss.

I'm a good guy, but nobody listens to me.





- What was he last seen in?




























You have to go there first, and the morgue isn't very nice.






All right, Mr. Redo.




















No, but it's important for me to know.


















For an unclear reason... this room made her happy.





















- Good night.
- Good night, Mary.































Last door at the end of the corridor.




















I need your help.


















































Good people, I think.























She needs money.





If Jacqueline needs money, she can come to me herself.











































































What do you want from her?




















I didn't tell you later because a lot of new details came up that made me worry.


Why can't everyone be as happy as we are?




We're happy, Mrs. Romari, because you have everything and I have nothing.





I need to find Jacqueline to sort things out.


















- Jason, it's so good to see you.








































After such lovely reviews?
I'd give anything to make it my first book.




Dear Miss Gibson.

























It's not the best.


What beautiful hands you have, Miss Gottshalk.



Why do you need them?

The book is the best gift ever.










You need permission.








- I don't think it's that important.
































Mrs. Redie's new brand.







What did she want?
























































- Our founder probably knew about it when he wrote these contradictory, apparently rules.








































Okay.










It's beautiful.


































Just because he's a lawyer and knows what to do.

She needs to be found.
That's the first one.



























Love and understanding don't make a poet a good detective.





I need your help.






















































Anything that made her happy.


I wasn't happy with them.























There's my old friend.









Good night, Jacqueline.
- Good night, Mary.
- Good night.









Bye, darling.





























All you have to do is stretch out your hand, grab a glass and have a little drink.
































You'd better go up to your room and wait for us.










Only you made me happy.






































Okay, Jason.










Do you have any proof that good is better than evil?











Okay, thank you very much.


















- No, I'm glad.

















I think you need to rest.

You don't have to leave the money here like this!























Ready?


























































- Have you ever thought about family being the most beautiful thing in the world?







It's not that bad. - I got promoted at the bank in January.





























- I became a grumpy old maid...
You walked around town in that horrible old hat. You promised to throw it away.









Well, let's go downstairs, darling.



Why, darling? Who are you going to send a telegram to?









- Last address I had...
- Do you know how many steps it takes to get from us to the pharmacy and back?













Anna, you don't have to put stuff in your ears.




































That's just great! Thank you very much, Miss Henderson.





























You wanted to be ready when we arrived in Santa Rosa.
- I'm ready.



- Okay. It's a little weak, but it's pretty good.




























First thing is dinner.












- The most beautiful girl in the neighborhood.









I haven't thought about this funny old street in years.
















Charlie, this is the most beautiful dress I've ever seen.

















Old and new.







Mom! That's the right thing to do!









Aren't they cute?

Everyone was cute and cute back then.

Beautiful world.



We're all happy now, Uncle Charlie.

- And happy together.

Oh, I don't need anything.














You came and... mom's so happy and...
Oh, I'm so glad she named me after you and that we're so alike!























Really good. Emeralds are the most beautiful thing in the world.












Someone must have been happy to wear this ring.










Okay, I'll go into town in the morning and open the bill.

- It's a lot of money.













































I'm sorry your mother isn't better.
- Thank you, darling. Here you go.
















- Best way to commit murder.











I don't need any evidence.

























Nice little barn.








































You don't want to read that.
- Good night, Charlie.
- Good night, Uncle Charlie.



Not that I mind, but you never know when I'm gonna need some privacy.
You better go to bed, baby.











- Everybody ready for breakfast?




I can't stand the world in the morning.

Well, I don't mind pampering you the first morning, but you're the only person in this town who eats breakfast at 10:30.








She thinks everything needs to be fixed.



A young man called this morning. He said his name was Sin and he wanted to interview us all.





Well, he said he needed a typical American family.





Oh, isn't that wonderful?




Mr Gregham was very nice.








- Good morning, Uncle Charlie!
- Good morning, Charlie.





That's what the government needs.



























- I'm glad he survived.



And then when he started getting better, nothing could hold him back. It's like everything he went through was too much for him and he needed to blow off some steam.







Today. If it's so important to you today, finish your breakfast and hurry to the bank because Joe's waiting for you.

- Good morning, Charlie.
- Hey, Marge. - Good morning, Charlie.










Any good banker can handle this, huh, Charlie?

- Okay. We know what banks are.












You don't have to tease Dad like that.




























I'm glad you're, Mr Greene, the man who's watching the details.
It's very important to me.
It's very important.











- I need money to go to the store.


































Nothing's ready yet.

That's what we need right now, Mrs Newton. A few pictures of the house.

Well, okay. But I insist that you wait until I clean up the house.
I wanted to plant flowers, hang new curtains in the kitchen.





Then you have to paint it, then...

- Em needs to change the upholstery.


























First you have to put the butter and the sugar.








Mr. Sanders, if you really want a picture of me with an egg, you're gonna have to wait until I blow up the butter and sugar.


Aren't you going to walk us out? And your mother will call us when she's ready.
- Okay.

You see, you have to add eggs at a certain point.

















Okay, I'm sure he's not there.


















Typical family is the best.














- I'm ready to break my balls.
















- The eggs are ready!

It was my last film.







And I'd like to ask you for a new favor.




Anna will be better.








- Okay. Goodbye.




Looks like he's a good young man.










- Much better, thank you.













You just needed to get into our house.


What do you want from us?





You just needed to ask me questions.


Okay, I'm a detective, and I'm pretty useless.

































You'll keep quiet because you're a good girl. Because it's so good that it helped. If they knew it was your uncle.










Good night, Charlie.

Good night.


But it's so good outside, I've decided to get some fresh air before I go to bed.
You better go home.



Okay.


- Mm-hmm. - Good night, Herb.
- Good night, Charlie.
Good night, Charlie.


















New and old. Miss Corcoran will find them for you.
She won't even notice if you cut out a little recipe.
Well, it's not that important.


Okay.













For God's sake, Charlie, you know as well as I do that the library closes at 9:00.

I'm sorry, Miss Corcoran, but I really need to see something in the paper.
















But I think she needed it.




- How are you feeling, darling?
- It's good now.







Is the gravy ready?






















































Yeah, you were on the train. I felt like you were running away from someone. And when I saw you on the train, I felt happy.
But Charlie, how could you be happy meeting Uncle Charlie on the train?






























Roger, go get four little glasses on your legs.



As usual, about the trips and the latest news?




It's different in big cities.










What happens to animals when they get old and fat?














You guys have a new style.













I got a better idea when I shaved. Grab your legs.






















- Nice to meet you.


Nice to meet you.




You don't have to break the law.





- I need to talk to you.



























Why? We're old friends.












I'm not that old.






- The most amazing and the best.




Isn't it beautiful?













You're just an ordinary girl living in a small town.
You wake up every morning and you know nothing in the world will bother you.




Or was it a stupid, little lie?


















This is my last chance, Charlie. Don't take it away from me.


I... charlie, give me one last chance.













- Home, sweet home.





- I'm so glad.


























Good morning, Mr. Sinham.
















There are witnesses there who can identify the person we need.


Witnesses will look at the picture, we'll see if we need Oakley.





That would be better.




I think you're sure he's the one we need.










































- Simple flowers are the best.













I'm glad to hear that.















































- I'm glad. I like you, too.

























Okay.
































Have a safe journey, Mr. Graham.













Okay.


Honey!









It needs to be strengthened. Are you sure you're okay?




- We're all happy here.












We don't need anything from you.
















































Anyway, we need a cab.








Charles, are you ready?



Joe, hurry up, darling!



















Charlie! Honey!




Anna, don't, darling.





I'm here, darling.










It's a good thing I was passing by.













- Luckily. I'm glad you came by, Herb.


















Thank you very much.








Joe, darling, will you help the guests?





Not me, not me, I'm sure my wife doesn't need a drink.













- Emmy. To our extraordinary guest who gave the best speech in our city, for this great guy, Mr. Oakley.



Looks like the best of them abroad.








Oh, Emmy, honey, I didn't mean to ruin your party.

























Okay.




Okay.
























It's better for your mother. It's better for everyone.


















I'm glad you could make it, Jack.




- He would never be happy. - Never.




Maybe the world isn't so bad, but sometimes it's worth looking at.



This is Akira Kurosawa's first film. It was filmed in 1943 and first shown on the screen in March of the same year. In 1944, the film was censored.












Murai Hansuki, old Master Giu-Jitsu :







































What's your name? You'd better kill me.






I wish you'd put so much energy into the fight.






Okay.















I want to see how big you are.

You're better than me.
There's a big difference between my understanding of judo and yours.



Teacher, we have a good relationship.


What, a fight means a good relationship?

You must be willing to die with a smile for that truth.



































That's good.















































Our school will be officially recognized as the best kung fu school if we win. The police are gonna hire my students.

That's what I got this morning.






























But the master is old.
























One early morning...
Look how beautiful that is.






It's so beautiful.





























You can't think in front of such important competitions.







I look at her... a beautiful face begging for her father...




































I'm glad you came.














"Put on the kimono, be prepared to use any technique."



I'm asking you again, do you really have to fight?
















Maybe he needs to think.



















Last carriage





- You're the prettiest officer in the Air Force.

And you're the most important potter in all of Rome.



Father, you're a wonderful man.

- Write, okay?












































- You're worse than him. - What?
































































First grade.







































































- Pay the bill, okay?



He didn't understand what I meant by you, the best friend a man could have.









Now we're going home, okay?




- It's not that old!
Pretty old.





















- Like a new one.











All right, give me some more!






- Will my shoes be ready tomorrow?


































































Okay, then I broke my leg, my shoulder, my head, everything!























Tell Luckini that the papers will be ready tomorrow morning.









I had such a good day today...

- It's the best medicine.


Watch the window, okay?















































































I'm a good actor, aren't I?

- And Nannarrell got a new dress.
















































- Good morning, Toto.














- Very good.
And then I gave her a big bowl of beans...











- Good morning.
- Good morning, how can I help you?

































- Okay.













- Honey.


Beautiful, huh?




Pretty good money for the early morning!
She's cute, this Maria, isn't she?











































Very good.















But there aren't many people in Rome who know me, and they're even less willing to pay me, but if I'm not paid, I can't be funny, right?








- It's your lucky day.


























- That's good.



It's a very important race today.






















- Nannarela and I are old friends.









What a lovely girlfriend of yours.


You're so cute when you're angry.






- Are you glad your father's okay?








I'm good.
- Good?


- The violets for a beautiful lady?
- There are no beautiful ladies here.









































Fior de Rosa came first.






































We'll be happy to come.
As happy as I am now.
I'm happy, and I don't have a penny in my pocket, see?
- Maybe it'll make you happier.











Make good wine, we're going out on me tonight!





























Ladies and gentlemen, we will now perform a beautiful Roman song.



"How beautiful Rome is in spring!"






Okay, I don't drink.


















- The two of us are making a good baking.



























































Then this is the first and last time.
I feel good, you don't have to bother her anymore.










































Today we must be happy.






It's a beautiful dress for Nannarella, new shoes for Nannarella, a beautiful purse, and this...











We're starting a new life tomorrow, no more work, and we're gonna have a butler.





Get rid of the mustache and grow the barrels, tomorrow's new day!


















It's almost ready.



















It's very beautiful, it's a copy of you.







My big boy!







A smaller boy, he's on a diet.









- Need any help?





Okay, but my wife has a weak heart, she could get sick.






























- Bye, I'll be back with a beautiful car.


- Who's the best driver in Rome?








They're small, but still...
Very small, really.














































It was my first time.









Okay, you can stay here and think about it and talk to the judge tomorrow.










"..saying nice nonsense..."

- The end is better, isn't it?




- Okay, go on.







Okay, let's start at the beginning.






- You'd better remember!























Everyone's gonna testify, but we still need a lawyer.























































- Sure, but you were so small.
You've become a beautiful woman.







Your father's a good man, and I don't hate him...






- Well done, it's gonna be okay.












- Okay.



- Okay, okay.




He was so small, and he's so big now.


We don't need a lawyer, I'm innocent!



I don't need anyone's help.



- I don't need witnesses.





He serves the country, and that would only make him a bad reputation among his colleagues.





































- Such important people are forced to wait outside!



















































































Good morning, Toto.

Okay?

























































- I don't want anything from you.








































- I'm sure it'll be okay.









I have something important to say-- Toto is innocent!




































What matters is that Signor Oreste Nardi is the ring of Signorina Maria.

































And now he's probably gonna lose his license, but he's a good guy.
















































And then he met an old gray man.







But the middle son didn't answer anything and went his way.





In the woods, Stupid met a little gray man, too.









- Here's the old tree.
























The King's new decree:




















- The master has a good heart. He'll be a good heir to you.









Okay.










It's a good thing we're together.


I wrote a letter to the dean yesterday and asked her to find a new swim teacher.
Honey.
I just called George Adams and told him to find himself a new composer.











- Okay, sir.







































It's little Mary Donovan.






Honey, are you sure you're gonna be happy here?











I'm his best friend.


You're a good actress, aren't you?


Now you're gonna play the best part in your life.






















Did she leave a new address?

















What did I do to her?

















She's going back to her old job.







Oh, I need to see Miss Caroline Brooks.

























- He needs that music, Steve, and so do I.



- I'll start in the morning.



Oh, thank you very much.






















- Nice to meet you.








I need a haircut, don't I?







































No, honey, no.

Do as you see fit.









































We need to check what kind of guy he is.











Every new student is on probation for two weeks.
If she or he receives a large number of penalty points during this period, then she or he will be awarded a fine.
- Okay.


Okay.










Unfortunately, all the best rooms are already occupied.














You've become more beautiful than ever before.




















Stephen Elliot, our new student.
















And maybe you'll find a way to use it. Have a nice day. Thank you.

















- Okay.









I mean, very well, lady.



Girls, the latest news.
















I'm sorry, Mr. Elliot, but you'll have to wait until the last Sunday of October.

It's the end time for the new students.
Good night.






Oh, good.

I need to take a nap.











Mirror and comedy are important.




An excellent example of this school is the old Scottish ballad, Loch Lomond.






















- Oh, thank you very much.


Isn't this redhead good?



Thank you very much.

















That's the first thing you packed when we were planning our honey Me...

Good night, Mr. Elliot.














With the roses and the little amurks cut out on it.
















Wait a minute, Willis, darling.
Willis, darling.










- Good evening, darling.




I know we're happy to see Miss Brooks, but we have to act like gentlemen.


Good boy.


I missed you this summer, darling.











- Don't worry, darling.



Big rat.
Whatever you say, darling.



Oh, very good, darling.


- Okay.




Good boy.
Oh, so we wish each other a good night.




Good night.































Steve, it's me, your best friend.

- My dear friend...





It's important to me that you're happy.
Stay here until you get your little fiancée back.














Okay, George?


Good night, George.




















I know it's a big loss.
I have the biggest loss.
This señorita got my last pair of maracas.

She stole my last pair of stockings.



- All right, maracas.
















- Go on, darling.


































































The secret to good posture is pride.


I'm beautiful.




I'm beautiful.








I'm beautiful.









Twenty points for bad behavior in the stables.











Well, we're gonna have to face it, darling. It's parent's day tomorrow, isn't it? And despite all our efforts, Mr. Elliot is still here.
























No one's gonna make me believe anything bad about you.
I want to see Mr. George Adams on a very important case.


- Good to see you.







I've already planned our little house.









- You think so, honey?

Well, there's gonna be a hall with a big screw stairwell...


Yes, darling.



Well, yes, darling, of course I do.










Mr. Elliot will disappear from our lives before the first roosters.
- Honey?








No, of course not, darling.

- Are you happy?








- Well, not really, honey.








Oh, I... I don't know, honey.

It's better to turn around here, darling.

- Oh, listen, darling.
We had to find a way to exclude you until your parents' day.

Honey, I didn't think I'd love you again and want to leave Victoria with you.


























- Okay.


























Hurry up, darling.





Honey, hurry up.










Are you cold, darling?








Okay, I'll get you some slippers.








No, darling.



















It's not fair, I asked first.






It's good to see you.



- Okay.





If you're very cold, you better go home and get warm.

Good night.


















It's better there.










- He's a good, honest young man.





















































Oh, Steve, darling, I'm so sorry.


















Ready?


Cobbler, cobbler, where's my shoe? Everything must be ready by 2:30!


Cobbler, cobbler, where's my shoe? Everything must be ready by 2:30!



Are you ready, Amy?



Amy's a nice girl. Just a little different from you.

























No, darling.





Oh, look at them, darling, aren't they cute?



Well, anyway, she's doing well with her imagination.









All I need to know is to look Amy in the eye.









I know, honey, I get it.





She says there's something extraordinary about her 6th birthday.
We guarantee her good time.
I'm so happy to meet you, Miss Galeham.
You're as sweet as Amy said you were.
I'd love for you to come visit us.







- Yes, darling.

In my day, the kids came to the birthday parties before the adults were ready to meet.





Okay, Ollie.























Amy, not this old tree.















Oh, Amy, look, isn't he beautiful?

- You need to blow them off once.









I wanted to be a good girl.






- Exactly, darling.
And you're gonna make mommy and daddy very happy.
- Good morning, Edward.
- Good morning, Amy.







You can stop being nice to us, Amy Reed.
















- Old house.



It's the best spell against witches.

It's nice and cool here.







- Of course, little miss.



- This ring is so beautiful.

I'm sure it was a nice lady once she gave me a little miss ring.
That's a nice ring.



If this is the real morning ring we have in Jamaica. All you have to do is turn it on your finger-- if it's a real morning ring, I'm gonna really want what I want more than anything in the world.

You look good and hot, good and uptight.









You know, when you're good and you play with other kids when you're not squeezing and hanging around in the clouds, your daddy's willing to do anything to make you happy.













And she ran to the old, dark house... and someone called me.





- Look, this is the last time you tell stories like this.



Old dark houses and voices.






The voices from the old dark house.










Sorry, honey.




We're not fighting, honey.




Amy looks happy.














Are you done, darling?

- All right, then let's go.

- Good night, baby.



She's been such a good girl all day.
- What did you say, darling?




- What song, darling?




- Yes, darling.

- Many times, darling.







It's from that old house with a voice.



Where was this old house?





- Are they good?

But I know you need the ring back.








- Good night, sweetheart.
- Good night.
Little Miss, you're preventing me from working.

Mom says you have to take me to the old house.





- What else, little miss?






- No, honey, I wasn't going to.















It was his first wife's favorite painting.


















You'd be a good audience.











Those beautiful, shiny, golden days.













Okay.




No, she went to some old house she was talking about yesterday.


It's not the best place she should be.






Good story.

















Is my little miss here?







- Okay.
















Little Miss, don't ever come here alone again.

But she's such a nice lady.







But you're nice and kind to a little girl.




















I'm so glad you came.




He's picking up new aces, I hope.





- Good morning, Mommy.
- Good morning, darling.
Are you ready for breakfast?








- Isn't she beautiful?
- She was very beautiful.






























































- Okay, Amy.
Put your sweater on, sweetheart.










She's very good.

She's good sometimes.

It's hard for her to be good.





- Thank you, darling.

You have to put them under the tree until morning.
- Okay, honey.



- What could you have given me, little miss?















- Your songs were beautiful.





- We lit a big fire in the living room.






Oh, my dear Mrs. Reid!






You don't open your presents until Christmas morning?




















How beautiful!



She's prettier than I imagined.









You'd better come in.
Run, darling.
- Merry Christmas.
- Merry Christmas to you, too, Amy.















Beautiful ring.








But, sweet child, you made my Christmas the happiest.























































Listen, darling. I want you to look again.







Okay, Amy.




- It's better if you don't interfere.


- After all, the first swelling... is an important event.
















That's even worse.







My first wife, Irene.













And I came here to make your childhood a happy and complete friendship.














































There's no better time than now.






























You've been getting worse since that little girl came.


















Poor little girl.







There's a little room under the roof.












Even the last moments of your life with my mother, you stole from me.















You're gonna be okay, aren't you?




And I see her, too, darling.














Dear Keyes...














It was, it wasn't all: you made a mistake. One small mistake.















It cost at least 30,000 bucks.



































On the piano were portraits of Mr. Dietrichson and Lola, his first wife's daughter.
















Nice bracelet, Mrs. Dietrichson.









Are their rates better?




The Auto Club is a good company, but mine is as good as mine.


Here's a new benefit: 50% coverage in the event of an accident.
- You're a good agent, aren't you?

















































































Sign it, it'll get better.







But there's no truck. 2,600 bucks is a lot of money where I live.











They're willing to do anything for interest.


- I'm sick of babysitting a bunch of idiots. They're ready to sell a policy to a guy who's got a rattle snake under his blanket!









And it was true, you old lizard. You were always yelling. You weren't happy.

I knew there was a big heart behind the cigar ash on your vest.








































- Better than Walter.

























































- What's wrong with that?





















Of course, sweetheart, I'm gonna get out of here.




I stopped by the cafe for a beer like I wanted from the beginning. Now it was even more necessary to get rid of the taste of her tea and everything.























- Yeah, Long Beach, a new well.

It's time to tell me you're happy with me.








-...like the first time we met.


































It's good here, Walter.




















I needed a house.
































With insurance companies, it's a bad joke.


I don't want that, honey.











And all you need is a partner in the gym.





He did nothing to me but marry someone he doesn't care about.








It's better than living like this.




















Everything was fine, except the witness that Phyllis found.






Scared of nonsense, we'd be broke. Right, darling?

Who needs them in California?





Okay.




























Isn't that a good thing?






















































































Just talk less.



I'd like to choose the new ones myself.









And he could have been better than he looked.





Most of the plan is ripe, but the details have yet to be discussed.











It's all set.




































- It's worse to be on death row.






And me, baby, but we have to wait.












You first. - It's been two years.


Ready to lose 50 bucks in your salary?





- I need an assistant, you're right.













- This job requires brains and character, a hundred agents.
















Better put a finger on the phone buttons for a little more money?













It's gonna be even better with crutches, isn't it?



























































From now on, it was important to stay on schedule. Step by step.








I'm not going anywhere today. Okay.























- You okay, honey?

- Take your time, darling, there's time.




You're happy to get rid of me, aren't you?


















I'll be in the last car.
















Bye, darling.
Have a good trip!













Palo Alto is a good town.





































There's only one last case left.















I haven't had a longer night in my life. But it was even worse this morning: it was in the papers.




































What's new?


He last saw Dietrichson alive.













There's no point blaming Neff, he's the best agent in the firm.


















A lot of people think that since a man has a big office...


A lot of people think that if a man has a big office, he's an idiot.






























Has your husband been depressed lately?































Good game, Mr Norton.





Mr. Norton, the thought of suicide came first.





















I was ready to hug you, Keyes. You and your statistics...












Okay.











































































































































































It was worse.
























































- Nice to meet you.




































There's a good osteopath here, I'd like to see him.



It was a pleasure. - Goodbye.
















Let him sue me, I'm ready to sue her and her accomplice.
















Let's see, the story of Mrs. Dietrichson's first.









You don't need money anymore? What, you got a conscience?






























































































































It's like the first time.


















































That's cute!












Is your plan for tonight better?






















What do you want?























































































He was your aunt's best friend, he'll help you.






















- Okay, Signor Anton.








You get happier and sing worse every time.



I'm happy, and I can't understand what a tragedy is.










Dear Maestro, I don't know when we'll meet.






Are you happy?









I need time.


















Honey.











I love old-fashioned murders.




















The spring gardens are beautiful.










































Look at this morning.





In beautiful places.



A play infested with the feeling of early morning.
- This morning.




















I've always wanted to live... in a quiet, quiet house on a little London square... with a woman I love.





















If that's true, I'm happy.

I'm very happy with you.





Good morning, narcissists.
Good morning, tulips.

Percy. Well, well, honey.








- Good morning.
- Good morning.


Good morning.











I'm glad we're neighbors.


If you need me, let me know. Have a nice day.











- Nice room.


Beautiful days.





















Her best role.

She's beautiful. Looks like you.










We'll build a new house with new things... for a new life.







Where are we gonna put the old stuff?















Old letters.
"Dear Miss Alquist, I beg you for your last meeting.
















If you get scared, we won't be happy.










I'm saying the house has become beautiful...


















Such big berries.






















- Elizabeth, this is the new maid.


All right, sir.














- Glad to hear it.




Paula. This is the new maid.

- Okay, ma'am.

- Okay, sir.
Good girl.
I'm glad.



I'm happy.








Always, darling.
It's the best gift ever.













- I'm kidding, honey.




Good to see you again.


Okay, ma'am.































































Of course, darling.











London is the most beautiful city in the summer.



You need to work.





















- My dear, it's nothing.




























- Good night.
- Good night.

























































All right, sir.















You know, I still think she was... the most beautiful woman in the world.





If you want to meet a beautiful woman, you don't have to cover up the investigation, okay?




We stopped searching for jewels on orders... a very important person.



There were jewels. She was given them by an important man.

















All right, sir.



- Do you need anything?











Sleep, darling.









What do you think the servants are for?











- Okay, madam.






I saw a new police officer at the post.






I'd be happy to do whatever it takes, sir.

- Yes. Tea if you're ready.
All right, sir.




















I'm very happy.





This old splinter from the square?









All right, sir.





















It's from the new operatta in Gaety.











Gregory. I'm happy.











There was a little painting here.










































You don't have to make it harder, it's just gonna get worse.





Nancy, there's a little painting missing from this wall.





Why would I do that?


- Okay.











































I hope you feel better in the morning.
I think she's getting worse, sir?

















I don't think you're the kind of girl the mistress needs...



















She's a nice girl, be nice to her.




































Paula. Paula, I didn't know this was so important to you.














- Okay, ma'am.

Do you need a cab for tonight?










- In the old place?
- In the old place.


Honey, put on your coat.
























I'm sorry, but my wife's getting worse again.





































































It's worse than lying.




































































Sir, I don't know what that means, but it's around 3:00 in the morning... I was standing on the corner of Thornton Square... and suddenly I saw our friend again.
















The owner told her that the mistress needed to leave for a long time, and Nancy had to stay with him.






- We need to get inside.





























































He needs total silence.



- The gas's getting smaller.






















- Just old things and furniture.











- You said it was old furniture?


























"Dear Miss Alquist, I beg you to meet me.


"Dear Lady Delroy" is my husband's handwriting.







































All right, sir.




















































































What do you want here?
Mrs. Anton, you'd better go to bed.












You need an address?







































































































- Ready?
- I'm quite ready.
















But, Father Fitzgibbon, why do you need a new oven?





I think you should give him a new oven, Dad.




That's good.












"The text of my sermon is taken from the mortgage, according to Mr. Haynes, paragraphs one to twenty-third."















Good morning.

- I have to go to St. Dominic's.


- So you're the new assistant?











If you want Dominic's church, Father, walk another block and it'll be on the left.










Okay, Father.
























You set a bad example for your children. You cornered me.












Hey, you, here you go. I don't need this.







Mrs. Carmody, has the new priest arrived yet? I'm here.

Okay.


I'm your new vicar, Father.

















Goodbye, goodbye.

- Oh, that old gossip girl.


















This is Father O'Dod, my old friend.









How do you like the new pastor?



No, I think it's best to talk about it in person.
Yeah, much better.
















That's sweet.

And that's good.















- He left early this morning.






- Good morning, Father.



I visited Mrs. McGonagle, who has a big house and rheumatism.










The basket is good, too.

Too small, O'Malley, it's too early to take them away from their mother.


Isn't that right, sweetheart?

Especially if you give something you don't need.







- Good to see you, Chuck.





This is my old friend, Father O'Dod.





































And here you need a young...






















I bet you have the mortgage.







We need to paint this place.






Good morning, Father.
- Good morning.










You don't have anything, and you don't need anything.





























It's a good bird.














What's important is not the gift, but the intent.




Okay, Father, goodbye.







































I don't think you need to wait, McCarthy.
Well, okay, Father.





- Well, okay.


Okay.














































Of course, Mrs. McCarthy is a good woman, but she's still a woman.






- Okay, McCarthy.















































Good?




























You have a good voice, but you don't have to do it like that. It's better to put all the emotions into the words.


































Oh, so you need a job.


















Being a good wife and mother is a good start for you, as for your mother. But you have to start somewhere, Father. Nonsense.


Go home and stay there until you meet the right person.
The right person will never come to my house.














Here you go, it'll help in the first place.












- Okay, Father.














Oh, 'Malley's definitely good, okay? ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪









































St. Dominic's Church needs a choir.















- He's got a good bass.
Do you need it?










Look, he needs a bass.






He needs a bass. - I can't sing!




















Yeah, maybe he's a little impulsive, but I'm sure he wants what's best.





I'd love to be sent somewhere else.

















































Ready?


Now chords one, two and three.





Ready?



































And he started talking about how good you are, about your successes and how confident he is of you.





























Okay, Father.
















Okay, okay. Take care of it.


Okay.





Okay, but call me as soon as you know something.












Okay.







I'm not going to my old room.














Well, if you insist, I'd like to try a little. - Okay.







You should probably get something to drink.















She's very beautiful.






She died when I was a kid.




There was always someone who needed them more.













Good night.




Don't forget this morning's rehearsal.









- Chuck, it's so good to see you.
Nice to meet you, too.


















It's so good to see you, Chuck.













Okay, Tommy, I promise.

Meet Chuck O'Malley, my old friend.




I told you in the last letter.






It was a week before Christmas, and this little old post office.



But that letter in Lucerne was the last one.



















You know, Tommy, Father O'Malley first told me I could sing.







Okay, Mrs. Quimp. What happened?

You better, Father.

















I can handle the little sins.










It's better now.



Very nice.
















You know, that's worse.













And before he kicked me out, he wanted to know more about me, so in a few well-chosen sentences, I painted him my position.



What's wrong with that?














You have a good piano.

I need practice, she's a singer.



















I'm happy if I can help others understand that religion isn't just that--
























That's a good idea.



Good morning, Father.


- Good morning, Father.










- That's a good one, isn't it?






















You're our first viewer.
Ready, guys?


Would you like to hear the guys sing something more beautiful?



- Thank you very much.





It was beautiful, Chuck.
Beautiful.



I'm glad you didn't drop the music, Father.




Bad news.









- What do they want?



















Okay.




















Oh, that's good.

- I'm on my way, honey.























































Well, honey, I think I'm gonna go get dressed.
Looks like I'm a bad father.




We're having a little hysteria.



I don't know. Looks like the new generation has no feelings...
Bye, honey.









I'm afraid we have more songs than we need, Father.
























Very good.











I mean, even though the song is good, as I told you, Father, it's too good for us.
























- Everybody ready?















































Father O'Malley would be happy if you listened to him.


















And I need a ball.








I wish you'd come with us, Father.


- You need some fresh air.






- Well, I guess it'd be nice to go for a walk.





If the ball hits the hole less than Father O'Dode... I win.






















This is the first time I've ever held a club.


















We'll build a new one.




















That's not so bad.










- A big check from the doctor?






But at my age, it's good if you even remember that word.




















But there's good news.

- Miss Linden. That's sweet.










Small, for the first time.



Much better, Chuck.





- No, I'm better.


Dinner's ready.








It's gonna be so much prettier.








On the contrary, I asked you to leave me here, but the bishop needs my help, and...
























































- It's good, really. ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪



You did find the right person, didn't you?









Everyone's waiting for you to say goodbye. Okay, Father.
I've done a lot of things here, and after the war, you'll have a new church.



















I've heard so much about you, it's nice to meet you.






I thought you were ready, and you're staring at the moon.




























No, it's the first time I've heard it.











Be until 9:00 a.m. my favorite.



On Reperban at half the first night, whether you have a girlfriend or not, you'll have a good time, 'cause it's just on Reperban at half the first night.





Fleet needs crewmen! We should have one drink first. Lord Kröger!







- Okay.









You'd better get some good rum.
- Good?





























Attention... ready!


Is Fita ready?
Jens ready?
Everybody's ready!






It's an old gag.





















Nice tile.

































What a beautiful name.

Beautiful people always have beautiful names.


- This morning.






























- Good morning.

- What do you want with my daughter?














Good morning.


I guess I need the money again.



















- It's a hell of a lot of days. If a girl in a small town is unlucky once...



















Thank you very much, Mr. Kröger.






It's a good thing your dad didn't see it.









I didn't believe that other people were more important to you than your own daughter.




















I need to wash my hands first.



But I'll be back by morning.

























A little creature like that wouldn't hurt a sailor.













My first was a sailor with a tattoo on his chest.


It's the first time you've ever felt pain. And you don't think it's gonna heal.


"Honey, wait a little while, I'll be back with you in a year."
He wrote to me once from Hong Kong what was beautiful. And that he still loves me. But I never saw him again.
It's the first time you've ever felt pain. And you don't think it's gonna heal.























Sweetheart, isn't it?








What, crazy, big love?












































Whoever's the last to leave is breaking the law!


Good morning.




- Good morning.
























I need a tie.











I need it to come only to me.




















He's beautiful, of course.




















- No, not wine, better beer.



























New?
Yeah, new ones.

- She's new, too.










































Hannes Kröger, first swimming as a youth from Hamburg to Valparaizo and back to Glasgow.








Last swim. My gear. My boots.






It's beautiful!











Okay, you put your fingers in here and in here, your thumbs out.











Play something fun.


- We have to come early today.









On Reperban at half one: a night walk on St. Paul's.






Your pain will pass, and a new meeting will bring joy.



















Sooner or later, it'll be our last hour.



When the storm wind sings its song, I will smile... the happiness of great freedom.










You've changed so much in the last few days.







You don't have to hump at sea anymore.
You have everything you need. Food, drink. You have the money.












Back in the sea? Now, when I first...




















I'll show you the most beautiful place on the Elbe.




It's a good thing I wasn't around.

















How do you like my new suit?

The first steam is at the discharge.
















And this is the last hamburg sailboat. F. Lazitz's four-machine ship, Padua.



The last voyage from Australia to Hamburg, Padua, passed for the rendezvous 68...






There, Mount Pinnasberg has the most important building in Hamburg. This is my house.






















I have an important meeting today.
Or maybe she's important and not just to me, little Paloma.

Last free Sunday, you're taking us to Pulman's?






































































































- "Dear Hannes!" This is for you.








































































One day he'll be hired again.
















New dishes, new curtains...


But it was nice, though, wasn't it?






















It's the first time you've ever felt pain. And you don't think it's gonna heal. But in time, gradually...





Her first was a sailor.
















What a beautiful name.





























































The consul wanted to put me in the Ganza theater at any rate, but... it's for the best.






"Good weather and good luck!" Everything.




























I'm glad I'm going back to the sea tomorrow.
It's almost 7:00, and you're still not ready?


Hamburg is the best city in the world, even better than Cologne.










I'll unpack the new TVs tomorrow.
Okay, that's not a big deal.
































She's not small anymore.






































He's changed so much lately.



















Why would I want a beautiful girl when someone else is out with her?

















Old story.





















'Cause there can't be anything better than a hamburg girl for money.

'Cause there can't be anything better than a hamburg girl for money.



- Okay.






And you, my dear, will stay here.
Good weather and good luck, son!

[King Henry Five's Chronicle] [and his battles with the French at Azincourt] [written by Will Shakespeare] [played by Lord Chamberlain's servants] [in the Globus Theatre] [Today, May first, 1600]






































And never has a wave of beautiful feelings washed away evil vices like this time.












































Without proving that his family is from the money, the beautiful... the beautiful... the beautiful... Queen Isabella,























Now we are ready to welcome what the Dauphin gives us, cousin beautiful;













We're glad the Dauphin's so cute.




























Good morning, Lieutenant Bardolph.
























I'm gonna let you out of your gut. That's the whole point.






I'm gonna cut your throat better than today, so tomorrow.


Whoever hits first, I'm gonna put a sword in the chest on the handle. I swear on the honor of the soldier!







- Right, he's very sick.












I swear by the sword, I'm gonna put the man who's gonna hit you first!







Sweetheart, go to him.



























Be happy, sweet boy!






For a long time I dreamed of a man of the same kind, old, brute, and defiant.

































































































































Fathers who, like Alexander, fought hard here from morning to night and hid their swords in the shears only when they had nothing to cut.


















I'm willing to give all the glory in the world for a circle of ale and safety.













By God, they're gonna blow us all up if they don't follow the best orders.



By God, he's an ass, so few in the world; I'm ready to say it to his face.


















Honestly, it's gonna be very good, my kindest captains.









I swear by Mass, before I close my eyes for the night, I will do good service or lie down with my bones.









And I'm no worse than you, in terms of military discipline, and in terms of origin, and in all other senses.






This is the last time we negotiate.










And tomorrow, they're ready to go at the early hour.















I think I'm a good student.







Very well, madam.

























































But I'm sorry he wasn't enough to fight, sick as a camper. I'm sure when we see our troops














































And tomorrow morning, we'll drive them further.






Proud of their number, the soul calm, the careless and the insolent French play in the bones of the English,
Branha is a sad, lame night, which, like an old witch, is so slow.
It's the best armor I've ever had.


It's the best horse in Europe.
Isn't the morning ever coming?











In fact, Prince, this is the best, most beautiful horse in the world.











I'm afraid a lot of them will die in the morning.






The Dauphin can't wait till morning.















He probably doesn't want the morning like we do.








Give them a good piece of beef and a good sword in their hands, and they will eat like wolves and fight like devils.





Singed a rooster, and a sleepy morning clock on the tower was punctured for three hours.






The truth, Gloucester, is a great danger.


















































We're the only ones who don't want the morning to come.





He's an old man, a good boss and a very kind man.

He finds that we look like people who are thrown into a mound and expect to be taken to sea by the first tide.























I'm afraid there aren't many soldiers dying to fight with a calm soul.















But when we're all chopped up, they're gonna buy him out, and we're not gonna get better out of it.



















































The enemies are ready to fight, pars.










If we don't have to see each other in this world, let's say goodbye before death, noble Westmoreland, my dear Gloucester, Exeter the kindest, and you, cousin, and warriors!































If we're ready with the spirit, everything's ready.






























For the last time, you listen to a herold.



















































































- Okay.
- Yeah, drink is a good thing.








I wish the Welsh fist would teach you good English behavior.





Well, that's good! I'm gonna be a pimp, and I'm gonna be a pocket thief.







It is a great pleasure to see you, my brother, a worthy King of England.

May it be as happy, brother king, date happy outcome, how happy we are to see your eyes,

























Catherine, Beautiful, the most beautiful in the world! Don't refuse to teach a soldier the words, the pleasant hearing of a gentle lady, and in the heart of a lover.


Beautiful Catherine!
If you can truly love me with your French heart, tell me about it in your broken English — and I will be happy.

Pardonnez-moi, I don't know what it is.
You're as cute as an angel, Kate.







I'm glad you don't speak English;















The right back will burn, the black beard will grow, the beautiful face will be covered with wrinkles, and the shiny eyes will fade;




Talk, sweetheart, and say nice, please.









With the permission of your honor, your French language is better than my English language.








But, sweet Kate, be kind to me because I love you very much, my beautiful princess.
What are you gonna tell me, my beautiful white lily?
The most beautiful Catherine in the world, my sweet and divine goddess?


And even though I can't swear honor to you that you love me, yet my heart flatters itself with hope that I'm sweet to you.








He'll be happy about it, Kate.











Your Majesty entendre is better than que moi.




Dear Kate, you and I can't be trapped in a weak fence of local customs.










In a tight circle, big people, and loosening the feats of light.



Dear great-grandmother and dear great-grandfather, this song is dedicated to you.
Dear great-grandmother and dear great-grandfather, we love you.






Very well, Sylvia, don't be upset.
- Are you ready, Emilia?



Dear great-grandmother and dear great-grandfather...








Come on, darling. The kids are waiting for us.

I'm not arguing, honey.



Honey, don't say that.











Don't forget the first page is written in the morning!
If you want to be a reporter, you have to go to bed early.





The bed from the old news.






















I'd be on the front page right away!
That's what I need, Papa! Tomorrow's paper!





You'd understand that knowing the future isn't so good.























What we need is a drink, let's go!




















































































Good night.













Good night.
















You better go home and get some sleep!

Good night, Larry!




Mrs. Keaver, I'm starting a new life today!
- You start her in the late morning...
- I slept. I've seen beautiful dreams.



Tonight was fog, it's cold in the morning...
What's new, Joe?






Anyway, all I need is ads.







It was Wednesday morning.



Surprising snowfall at 8:00 a.m. for the season.





...at 8:00 a.m.





I'm telling you, we don't need waiters!

- We don't need waiters, you know?





I repeat, we don't need waiters!

You broke the dishes here for the last time.




No, I need a waiter now!


























News for the front page!

























































Come on, we'll be safer inside.























I need you!


I need a witness.

















You'll see on the front page!






Get on the front page!










I'd like to know more about that.







Stevens is my best reporter.




You told me what was gonna happen this morning.

He didn't do anything wrong!












First day of the reporters, and his name's on the front page!







With a good lawyer.
























Let's try it one last time:


















































































To get out of here, you need to talk.











She didn't bring you anything good, did she, Larry?




















Tomorrow morning, Union Bank.



























You just have to wait for them there.

All right, Stevens, all right! We'll wait at the bank.




I need to apologize to her.


















I played it all for Beckstein, he's a big shot from Barnum and Bailey, you know?




























Better get a boat.













They're willing to do anything to make a report!




Oh Sylvia, darling, your life was in danger!




My darling silly!























You're so small!



You don't even have to shave...







That's better.






I'm glad you're not jealous.














You have a great imagination.






I didn't even read that paper yesterday. But this morning...





















- Yes. Good night.


Good night!






















- That's very nice of you, ladies, but...

He needed my advice.









Sylvia, are you awake, darling?







You're just old gossip!


















- Sweeney, is the obituary ready?






- Could have been a good reporter...

















And leave him alone, he needs to write!
Be a friend, Larry, tell me, how did you end up at the bank at the right time?


































Good night.






Please, for the last time, I'll never ask for it again, I'll never tell anyone where it came from, but...
She's not gonna do you any good, Larry.


All you need in this life is money?

Give it to me, and I'll be happy for the rest of my life!




Ladies and gentlemen, this is our last performance in this theater.

Thank you very much!






































I'm not playing, my dear!




















I'm asking you, darling. I love you.







































Larry, honey!



You're happy, aren't you?





I have to go!
















- Come on, Mr. Stevens. - I need to stay.




I have the honour to introduce our local hero, the man with the sniff of the sensation, who is always at the right moment in the right place, the man who is willing to face death for the news...


















Now you need some fresh air!



Do you need anything, Mr. Stevens?






If there's anything else you need, call...




























It's good to see your serious intentions.


















This is her last chance!
Larry, darling, we'll go another time!




Sit down, darling...
Hurry up on the track, we've got to get to the first race!



- Wait for me here, darling!
No, I'd rather watch him.




















































You're a good customer...


- If Ramona comes first.

Don't worry, Ramona's coming first.






That's too much money for one horse!












Diablo will come first, whatever it takes.








We're happy, Uncle, and we'll always be happy!


During the last race number seven, Diablo, was disqualified.
















No, honey, not tonight!



- Take them, it's better.








































The whole town's been searching where his best reporter is!








- When was the last time you saw him?








It's a good thing he didn't know he only had time to go home...















I was told something important was going to happen.



















You have the best sense of sensation in town!














Don't be nervous, darling.










Sylvia, honey, don't argue if you love me!




































































It's beautiful!

















Good night.







Take all the winnings of the first race and put it in the second. Then you put all the wins on the other one in the third.
And then don't lose your cool, 'cause you gotta take all that money and bet on the winner in four!







Nothing but a beautiful future.





Are we happy?
We'll always be happy as long as we're together.




- We're gonna need a big house.








- Look, darling...






















Tomorrow morning, Morgan Creek will be...


It's the last available phone in town.











We need immediate help, or they're coming to tear this town apart.
We need state police...

















It's important.














Go straight to Morgan Creek, buy some... hotel space, they'll be needed.



- A small river should have a big dam.


This is the biggest sensation since we took this country from the Indians.




















































Okay, but don't be too late, Trudy.
First dance with me, okay?

The last dance is with me.




- It doesn't matter.































- I'd love to, Norval.
Good night, Trudy!

































- Good night, Dad.






- Good night, Dad.




I was a soldier in the last war, too.





























I'm beginning to realize that they don't need me, and I feel cold sweat, and my head starts to groan, and I'm dizzy, dark spots in front of my eyes, and they say I have high blood pressure, but I'm always cold like ice!






I'm really glad you called me.

















I'm really glad you're coming to watch a movie with me.

- I'm very happy for you, Norval.
Beautiful.
I don't mean to sound unpatriotic, but I'm glad she refused to dance...




Good night, Emmy, Dad.



- There's gonna be a new boogie-woogie...








It was very nice of you to come to me right away, Norval.
It's a great pleasure for me, Trudy.


My dear Trudy!








I can't think of anything, it gives me... great pleasure, even more than helping you.







You need to listen to your parents' advice.








They're all beautiful, young guys, from good families, and we can't send them to death... in the red light of missiles, under bombs in the air... without anyone to say goodbye to them, can we?






Perhaps the head of the shelter visits them on the basis of old-fashioned memory.

I hope when you join the army, that's not gonna happen to you... before you go far, and the last thing you have to cherish... when you fight under the sky is a kiss from your superiors!













Anyway, I'm not doing anything wrong.



























Okay, okay!








- Guys, I have a great idea.



This is the best group of guys I've ever seen.










































Do you realize it's 8:00 in the morning?
8:00 a.m.! Ooh!













- It's old, but it's safe.












Good night!













Where did you go with my daughter until morning?


















- Good morning, Mr. Schottish.
- Good morning, Norval.



















It's not bad on Sunday morning, either.
Beautiful.






















I remember dancing with a tall, dark boy... with curly hair... and a little one with freckles... and a fat blonde who sang in my ear...













































You're not the first person who can't find a husband.

And they say they have beautiful kids, too.


















She's a very nice girl.



And if he wasn't important to her, the marriage would have disappeared a long time ago.
No one's gonna jeopardize their present or poison the future with little annoying kids screaming all over the house.













I'm always willing to sue anyone, at any time and for anything.


You don't need a lawyer, you need a psychic.














That's good. Tell her she got married, but when she has to prove...




My ideas are probably not very good, anyway.










No one believes in good if they have a chance to believe something bad.















8:00 A.M., isn't it?



- You'd better marry him.






I'm glad to see you all again.

- Dad can bite like a bat.

Wait till you get married and have half a dozen daughters... and see what you say when some people bring them home at 8:00 a.m.




- and then they'll get worse.



I think it's better this way. I have no claim against you.























She thinks she can without it, and then, one day, something happens... and she realizes she can't do it without it.



If I didn't know you so well... and I didn't know that nothing could shake you... this guy could have sworn, you gave him a hint.



Well, then, how much more do you need to insinuate?

















































You've been paying less and less attention to me... you've always liked guys in uniform.













































Maybe I can find a better way to explain it to you.

































- That's not the worst part.
- Not the worst?

What could be worse than that?











I've thought so much about it... and the more I think about it, less I can remember.



















- I'm the last person I've ever tried.



















He's such a sweet young man, just honey.














You don't need to convince me, Trudy.

I know you didn't do anything wrong. Your family won't hurt you.
If you're not well, it's bad for me... and sad and ashamed.




Very few like Norwell, darling.










- Funny thing happened this morning, Norval.










It's none of my business at what time you come home in the morning... or how much you drank...







- That's too bad for a banker.







I'm glad you haven't been downsized yet.























It's my last wish.

I want you to know that my last thought was about you.








Well, without you, it'll be important.
Thank you, darling.




Besides, I've always been a very good swimmer, at least that's what the ones who swim well say.









































You can do more.
You have to do more.






















Is it because you brought me home that morning?
























I'd love to.
- That's all you have to do.






Honey!
- Are you hurt, honey?































- This isn't the last one.











When a king has to marry, and he's very busy in his kingdom... and he can't move to another kingdom... another king won't send him a princess... because he doesn't trust the first king.

















- The movie is a very good place to do it.









That's good.













Okay, goodbye, Papa.



- Goodbye, darling.






















There's a problem we need to figure out.






























You're good. Sit and say "Uh" and I have to find a name before we get there.
All right, Ignat.
That's ridiculous. Our first fight is on our way down the aisle.












































Good idea.











It's better now.










- That's better.


















- Okay.











Do you want a lot of little kids?

























- I'm done, darling.




And a small cookbook for you as a gift... with best wishes for those who may have to eat this cooking.
































































































Very good, Norval.































































- You need a witness.

















- Nothing but a good kick in the ass.










And you two get ready for good whipping.




















You stained the name of our beautiful city.


















And here's the latest data, the evidence.








I'm gonna love Norwell to the last.



He didn't do you any good, darling.




































- That's why you need a witness.






And when your little surprise opens up, he's probably gonna get more.








Dad, that's not good.






The less people know about it, the better it will be for them.




























Okay.









- Thank you very much.


It's a good thing you're not trying to run away right now.
I forgot to lock the door... and I need five minutes to climb the tree.




















My car is standing right in front of my house... and if you need gas, 5 gallons in the barn.




















Don't you understand that, darling?

But it's only gonna get worse, Trudy.

And I'm just gonna love it, because it's gonna be for you, Trudy!

















It's all for you, Trudy, not selfish, I need some money.




All you have to do is rob the bank a little bit.







You need to know exactly what to do, or... the alarm's gonna turn on.






















- Okay, Dad. Which side do you want to hit?











Details don't matter.































Anyway, now that I'm back and ready to give up, I think... they're gonna take Mr. Cockenlocker back to work, and everything's gonna be okay?














I gave you very good advice, Norval.





Norval, I'm so glad.










- Merry Christmas, darling.
- Merry Christmas to you.
- Merry Christmas.
- Merry Christmas to you, Mr. Rafferty.
- Merry Christmas, Mr. Rafferty.











Nothing's going to cause indigestion, but there's nothing better than plum pudding with tsukats and nuts.






You have to believe in the Almighty... no matter what happens.





You have to believe very much.
Speaking of shit, I'm gonna have to give Bessie a drink tonight, Dad.







- It's so good to see you.










It's gonna be okay.




Fine, thank you.















No, no. Aren't you okay?














































Okay, ask her here.






























- How long does it take to keep it a secret?









No matter how you look at it, it's...










Where have you lived for the last six months?
Thank you very much.
I have everything I need.



















- All right, let him out.


























- What about the first Ratzivaski?































You're so beautiful.



- You're so beautiful.






I'm so happy.






We're gonna have to pick names.


I'm so happy.



















- Where did you last see her?










I think you'd better let me hold her.
I have to do this, but you better get me to do it.
Okay.

We're ready.












I took this job because my bank account was ready to die.

I just realized what a big city it is.


















Okay.












































I have to be big.

































Drinks turn a good company into a very good one.













Why did you say you needed her?

I don't need to sit down with you, but when I like a guy, the more he buys a drink, it's different.



That's all Mike left me, and that's their old dresses.






She was a good girl, but she died.









Her hand was firm, and she was calm, like she was making funeral orders after the murder that she hadn't yet committed.


He said it was important.



















I can't take the big deal.

I only need your services for a few hours tonight.











But they could get worse.
























































Suppose the detective didn't need him anymore.
















It's better to go through the dumpster than get information out of you.








One mistake, and we're gonna lock you up as an important witness.


















































- I want an answer first.
- Okay.














It was a nice little garden outside the house.

The house is pretty good, too, but not as big as Buckingham Palace.



























- How expensive?














































Does it matter?











- Bad guy?

Lin's probably a bastard himself, but he's a cute bastard.









They gave me back one of the rings, pretty good.





























I've been playing checkers with cops lately.















I don't think I'm gonna make a good detective, Mr. Marlowe, and I...








I'd love to talk to you...












































But this is a place where you have to wear a shirt.

- I need to powder my nose.



I like you, but I'm too old for this kind of game.
























- In one of the best dreams.








I'm a big boy now.










- Good, huh?






















It's an old psychological trick.


Dear Mr Marlowe...







Old psychological trick, Grandpa.



























And I might have assumed that an expensive necklace shouldn't be lost.











I'm willing to buy it if you have it or you can get it.




- Too bad you don't tell me where she is.
































I'm glad you hit me.


















The doors are very small.



- I'd rather take a nap.















What a nice bed!






I was ready to talk to someone.















You have to say it.



















You're not well, Mr. Marlowe.














You're in bad shape.
You shouldn't have fought me.














- You're not well. I'd rather help you.















- What do you want?



Nice place.


An old ballroom or something like that, where could you sleep?

I broke up with the cops, honey.

Maybe they just want to talk, but I'm not ready for it yet.
- I need to stay here for a couple of days.






- He gave me a nice three days.



Last thing you said.









A red-haired girl, a nose with a hump and a good figure.


































There's a little package on my doorstep named Nalty who's trying not to look like a cop.













The last time I saw you, I gave you good advice.





















































I still have to go to my place.










- He's the best.


















She's been gone since yesterday morning.









- Because it has to be stopped.














But my wife is the most important thing to me.
- Do you think she's beautiful?

She's beautiful, isn't she?

You might think an old man shouldn't have a young and welcome wife.













But this has to stop.
We have to stop, Mr. Marlowe!
This has to stop!


The case needs to be closed.









































The smell of expensive perfume.



The first thing Rendal did after the murder.
































When I showed up, you were afraid I was gonna be the new Marriott so you tried to buy me out.

It's safe to assume that since you haven't been able to buy me out, you've decided to be nice to me.




All men: old, young, handsome, using pink toilet water and almost bastard private detectives!
Sorry, honey.







It's only part one.


Pretty expensive babies who know what they want!


Well played, darling.






It's a good place to hide.










- Was it bad?




It's a long story, and it's not very beautiful.













-...because he's done me a lot of good.
- What kind of good?












































I really need you!

I wasn't good, not even half.
I wasn't very smart, but I need help and calm.
I need you.






Even if we find him, we still have to be able to do it.


Tell him you're ready to sell what you've got.









Okay, he's here.




- In the morning.
It's better to do everything until it's dawn.

How do you feel about not having to make a living?





I'd better not show up until tomorrow night.





It was just broken like a little girl could break a thin twig.
To do that, you have to be a very big man with a pair of big hands.

I have to leave.
Good idea.
























































I need to get ready, so take your time.


But I needed to know one more thing.





























You're too good to be some detective your whole life.








He wasn't good at all.





































It's a good move, but it won't work twice.
I don't count the one, the first time, eight years ago.






















Honey, your sense of time is getting worse.










I'll kill someone for the first time. I don't know much about this, and I'm curious.

























































































- How would she feel about the old one?






It's not a pretty face, it's a beautiful face.














- Okay.




Good morning, Captain Morgan.


















- A new order?


Good for him.




Oh, good.



Oh, and I feel bad today.
- You're sick every morning.





- Good morning, Mon Capitaine.
- Good morning.








- Good morning, Mr. Johnson.





Only better.







- Okay.
I need the money.















































- Why do you need this guy?
























All right, let it go.








































You fish for 16 days, you catch a couple of fish for which... any good fisherman would give his life, and they both lost their lives.














Okay, huh? - Okay, Eddie.


I don't blame you for the line, such a big fish would still tear it apart.





I'll go to the bank tomorrow morning.



- Good idea...


























- We missed the biggest fish of my life.


It was my last day.









What time tomorrow morning?





















I wouldn't say if it wasn't so important.


























We'd better stop them.

















He doesn't think better about you.






- Yeah, that's a good reason.
Besides, I need to buy a boat ticket, leave Martinique.
That's also a good reason... but you're gonna have to get some money somewhere else.










- It's a good thing you didn't give him back.
















- but it's very important, and we...










































You have a good memory for a drinking man.




I'd forget how good that is.






































Good night.






You're good, you ran away with my girl.























In the morning.
















Look, Harry, this is bad.









































That's good.
































































- Buy a new hat.

Buy a new... hat.







It's better now.
























- Good night, Captain.


































































And you were good.












I don't give up what's important to me.

































That's a good idea.





















































I need money, too.









Well, you're good.











But I'm still gonna say you're good, and I wouldn't...












It's much better when you help.















































I need the money.
I didn't need it last night.


I'm glad you're on our side.












- It hurts less.






















If only we could find some good poems.
- Good morning, Cricket.

- Good morning, Sucky.


- The best in recent years.






























Maybe it's better this way, Sucky.










- Look, can I have a little...
















































Aren't you glad you came?





























- Why do I need a gun?




What, it's gonna be so bad, Harry?








I'm better now, Harry.









I'm a good man, you know that.







































































You have to tell me how good you are.




















It's not that bad.





















































It's gonna be okay.






Harry, I need your help.




















I'm ready to go when you go.





We'd be happy to forget everything if you did it for us.















































Besides, he has as good a chance with me as anyone else.



































That's good.
All right, Sucky.



































We'll talk about it in the morning.











But the worst part is, it was so hard for him to take me with him... because I made him like this.





















Good morning.

- Good morning.







Yeah, and I hope there's everything you need here.

- That's good, I love those.










Look, when I'm ready to take my shoes off, I take them off myself.



- A little breakfast?

That's a good idea.
























You'd better get downstairs.




It's a good thing you didn't put me in a bathtub.







You've never seen such a big marlin in your life.

- Good morning, Captain.












I told him about the big fish we picked up last night.
Sir, this fish was so big that we could barely move it.





He must have started with a very small one.










































Your memory will be even better if you get your passport and your money back?





If these people are so important...













He doesn't want them, he needs the whole organization.




Better get rid of it.












It's better this way.





- That's a good idea, Sucky.








































- Much better.










You don't need me anymore.













Renard's gonna come and turn this place upside down... so you better start thinking about how and where you're gonna move him.
- Wouldn't it be better to go with you?




























Maybe someone better who won't fail.

































Looks like it's gonna blow up soon. It's too quiet.



























Please, Harry, for the last time.

























































You can save Mr. Eddie from, say, a lot of discomfort.


















Your friend needs company.













Okay, Steve.























They're ready.









I'm glad you're on our side, Harry.













Looks like you're glad to see me.




































Are you still happy? - What do you think?









You recognize the specific cold, which is just the first warning.

But that leaks through heat to vital centers.









What an amazing old house.
It's better to leave before we break someone's border.





You're a bad dog.

Rick, he put a poor, little squirrel in a trap.

- My dear dear sister...

It's a great way to spend the weekend, chasing a dog.














This is the most beautiful house I've ever seen.








And mom's in her best gray muare.





I'll find you a bedroom with a better landscape.
They all have the best landscape.
How beautiful.





If you grew up in an old house... you'll always want to live in a house like this.






















And it's a job to drive around and tell your readers how bad the music was.
It's not a good job, Rick. When you move here, you... you're gonna write your own music, like you always had to do and like you always wanted to do. Stop it.
Rick, it's still better than being a very good critic.
Thank you very much.








The house is in good condition, no signs of dampness.




Important decisions must be made quickly.
























It's not a very good chair.




























Thank you very much.







I don't think there's much to repair.













This house is worth a lot more than that.


And you wouldn't be scared in such a big, lonely house?


There's some weird shit in the old house.









Maybe the two of us need some time to discuss this.


- Very well, then I agree.



















Oh, not so bad.







Hot pinches to scare people like that who keep telling me that breakfast is ready, a bunch of checks from my publishers, and...

She needs some air.






You don't think we made a big mistake, do you? Rick, what are you doing?





























She's just a little dog in the hay.
It's okay, Bobby, it's okay.




- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.




Beautiful house.
I'm glad to hear there's gonna be people in it again.


Oh, you might be the new owner.



Those who lived there before you weren't very good people.




















Good morning, Mr. Hardy.



If you have your favorite tobacco, I'll be happy to get it for you. Thank you.










Come on, it wasn't that bad.
Thank you very much.










Yeah, and she was so beautiful.












- You're 20 and you're very beautiful.
You shouldn't waste a second looking back for three small years.










Isn't that better than reading to Grandpa?
Oh, that's beautiful.





Maybe you should leave the sun.





























It's so beautiful.













I hope you have a good trip.



Okay, soft, but firm.





I'm very glad you and your sister are going to live in Windward.


It's a big house, Mr. Rick.







- Baby, honey.

















Pam, that's great.




























You're a big liar.












You're an old tyrant, Lizzie Flynn.


























Good night.
- Good night, Rick.
- Good night, Mr. Rick.
Good night, Liz.





Do you have a good iron... can I exchange it for this mattress?



Pretty cute, huh?
Are you really happy?
I've never been so happy in my life.






Sleep well.

There's quite a lot of good apples here.

Good night, everyone.
Good night.
































Be cool, Pam. Be cool.









- Listen, darling...















Because I need information.

















I'm glad you're better.
Better?




Maybe I'd say she's... not healthy enough to make friends with new people.

- Go, my dear.
















Very good.








Very well, I know how to do things.
















So you're gonna turn into the same, dull little lady who's pouring hots for older relatives?


That's practically the best thing you've ever said.














But it was beautiful.
































You'd better tell the captain.
















I can't see you tonight, but I'll be happy to see you by nightfall.















There was a big scandal.

If I ever tried to talk about it... I might be better. Did your grandfather tell you why? Cause?
My old baby's there, isn't it?

How nice of your sister to do it here.


When I was little... I used to dream of a room like this.


And then... there was a little light... just a tiny point and so bright light... and all of a sudden... everything became warm and light and peaceful.















Between us and the piano... I suspect my father was some kind of bad actor.




If the father was as good as the mother... think how good I would be.















































You know this is our first party... in this house?























Oh, Lizzie, honey.






















Stella, darling.






There's a doctor in the first house, in the village.











Okay, you just forget about it for a while.














I prefer to risk her moving less tonight.









You'd better go to bed, Miss Fitzgerald.











Bobby was the first to see a ghost.





















































































Stella, remember how bad you were last night?










But that look in her eyes is so wonderfully happy.



- Maybe she's right to be happy.




































Listen, darling.





This is, of course, not a luxury... just a little London apartment, but it will be ours.





























































- The muffled light, the alphabet on the table... the glass tops the bottom, a message from someone's Uncle Oswald, how to find an old toothbrush. - Was.


Okay, we'll have a session.





Trusting your life to a tall, dark-haired man, very beautiful?




Okay, the message can do that...






- But we'd be there for her all the time. - Okay, it's worth a try.
It's important that we all believe, isn't it, Dr. Scott?













Is that the reason, darling?











- Are you sick, Stella?












Maybe it's better to try and get into her mind.










No, don't move until she's better.












- Okay.
























I know now... that Stella will never be okay until this house is cured.




I'll be here early in the morning.


























She's not that beautiful, of course.












It's better for her if she wakes up in my house.


They must never know, my dear... I promise you!

















































She's got a big, beautiful place now... something like a hospital.







This place is pretty nice, isn't it?





















Okay, I'll give it to her.










- How are you? That's very nice of you.



Really, beautiful stones, aren't they?






It's kind of a hotel... where you can see beautiful things, listen to music, and a little sympathy.





Mary Meredith was the most beautiful person I've ever known.























A good plan flashed into her little evil head.























The next morning, she came back, she had an early stage of pneumonia.

















Good afternoon, my dear.





















Your grandfather's sorry you should be here... but he knows you'll be better soon.
Better?

I wouldn't say that, Stella, honey.







You'll have a nice conversation with Miss Holloway once a week.


































A very small chance, of course, but let's go upstairs.









Kuesade is much worse.

















Okay, Edith. Take this home.




















I'm gonna be found dead in bed in the morning by a lot of fear, and I'm gonna die on your conscience.






Did you find anything new?



It's bad if we both get drunk.





You have the biggest nose in the family.













- Come here. - Good night, Miss Pam.
- Good night.
- Good night.
- I'm glad I found you here.







Miss Holloway was her mother's best friend.
It's bad that she's in that place right now.










I'll be glad to see you again.




I need a car tonight.
Good evening, my dear.





It's not a big deal.



You'll never be happy there.













Miss Holloway, I'm the happiest person in the world.















Another time, I'd be offended by... such insolence, especially from a doctor whose behavior leaves much to be desired.










She wasn't very happy here.
I can't help people who aren't very happy.


Even better.










































Don't try to talk, honey.










When you were little... after she died, the evil of this house was reaching out to you.










Hang on, honey.





We'd better go straight to him.
There was nothing I could do, darling.











- No, honey, no.

It's okay, honey.










Second time a year. Imagination is good.




The girl is in a bad mental state, but I'm sure her great happiness will support her in this.
























Now she's happy.




- Please, Stella. - Come on, darling.
Okay.























Yeah, it's fine. She's gone, Stella.































Oh, boy, if I ever get out of here, my first lunch is gonna be awesome.
Big, fat, juicy steak with baked potatoes.








"From the best American cook, Elizabeth Lane.

Are you happy with your lunch, darling?



Your stomach isn't ready for solid food.


You gave him his last ration, remember?
It was a great sacrifice.




































Maybe a new Mayfair?















But you have to be convincing.

Big difference.












Oh, that's sweet.


















Honey, you're so sweet.
































You know, honey, I was thinking that...
Oh, honey.
















Dear Mr. Yardley, I hope you remember me.














Which will call and wish you a merry Christmas, sir.



Good morning, Mr. Yardley.
Good morning.



















I think I'd better have lunch with you.
It's important.
Okay, then I'll come in right away.
I'm writing and gazing from the living room window into the spacious lawn of our farm that looks like a wonderful card for winter New England.






Thank you very much.




































Beautiful, isn't she?


It is very important to keep promises especially to yourself.
- Why promise such an expensive thing?
- But I need her.
Do you need it?
No one needs a mink coat except a mink.







Outside the mink, inside the sardine, nothing good.








- Okay.







































But it's not really as bad as it looks, Liz.







You're a much better liar than I am.



I'd rather get fired than stand in front of that old oak.

Remember, I have a wife and family who need support.

Okay, I'll go.







































- That's nice.






Well, honey, obviously there's only one thing you can do.

















- And Dudley Beachum is his best job.
Okay.

What are you gonna tell the old gentleman?
Well, I'll just say, "Of course, Mr. Yardley, there's nothing better than inviting this man..."























In response to your letter from Mrs. Lane 15, it will be a great pleasure to receive your friend Jefferson Jones.













Thank you very much, but I really can't...

You're a beautiful American mother and wife, and we're proud to have you working for us.






Don't try, my dear.










I prefer a good low.


She's the best farmer, isn't she?



Thank you very much.








































- Is that good?

That's not good.
Bad?






















Sometimes it's for the best.




To be Mrs. John Sloan, darling.



Well, I'm willing to take my chances.









Something very good, but not too expensive.





You need someone to look after you.





Bad habit.













Honey.



Hey, look, it's not that bad.

- That's a good idea, Dud.




There I take most of the material for the articles.





















She seemed so happy...

John, honey, it's only for a few days.



















Felix, good news.
May I inform you of our dear Elizabeth's engagement with Mr. John Sloan?























Can I get you over the threshold, darling?


Oh, John, how beautiful.

I'm glad you like it.






- It's all set, Mr. Sloan.







































You're very nice to me, John.


Instead of regular pipes, double ribbons were needed.

- John, darling,












Honey.
- Something wrong, darling?





I don't think so, darling?



- Good to see you.





- Beautiful place to get married.










Means "no good."
I want you to know that this is the best kitchen in Connecticut, Mr Basilnoker.






It's an old-fashioned Irish stew.
It may be old, but such a goulash isn't good at all.





Nora and Felix, we need you to witness.

I'd better take off my apron.











Good to see you, my dear.












Dear beloved, we are gathered together...






Remember, darling?





Dear beloved, we are gathered together...











































That's what I need.








































They're awfully nice in the bathtub.




















I'll make you a nice martini.



Well, it's all set.













What a good name.

















































Is that better?








You'd make a great father, Mr. Jones.




Oh, that's too bad.

Well, it must be nice to have a house to come to and have such a little lady.








- Are you ready?




























- It's very good to see you, Mr. Yardley.
















Okay.



Elizabeth, darling.

Merry Christmas, my dear Mrs. Lane.

It's a great honor, a great honor.













I love a good big fireplace.












Fully dressed and ready to eat.


- Thank you very much, sir.











Even better than a mink coat.







Sorry, honey.


- Thank you very much, but I can't wait.








































Believe me, your feelings will be much better.
That guy's got a good voice.
















- My dear sir.

Just think, 2,000 new readers because of one room.







23 pages of new commercial, all baby food.














- Another child, dear Sloan.




Take as many as you need, my dear sir.






Yeah, I'm glad you called.





Okay.







In turn, I'm ready.
Nothing's gonna make a dream like a good dinner.


- I'll just turn off the lights, darling.
- Good night, everyone.
- Good night.


I hope to appreciate this weird bed under the old bullshit.


Good night, Mr. Yardley.
Good night, Mrs. Sloan.
Good night, Mr. Jones.
Good night, Nora.
Good night.


I arranged it very well, didn't I, darling?











We need a witness.























Come on, darling.












There's nothing better to wear than a leg. Would you like to join me?

Maybe I'll feel better with a good drink.

Mr. Yardley, do you think Mrs. Sloan is happy with her husband?


Yeah, I guess they really make good husbands.








- Yeah, we need witnesses.

Okay, darling.














































I think it's best to call Nora.
























She's one of my most important people.





















That's sweet.




It's my big challenge.























Yeah, that's better.








Nice cow.
Beautiful brown eyes.




Well, good night, Makushla.
Good night, Macushla.
Thank you very much.

Oh, I'm fine, darling.








It's a beautiful situation.








And it's my first wedding night.



- Okay, if you insist.
But the first person here in the morning will be the judge...












They're beautiful animals.































She doesn't have to fix it today.















We've got a new kid.









- Good morning.
























You see, it's an old custom.




We need another witness.








We need you as a witness.



































- He only needs one thing.
Nice dose of castor.




Castorka's bad for the baby, too, it's not good.


















Let's go back to a peaceful life.






Good morning, Mr. Jones.
Good morning.














I think we better get out of here.



- Something important.













I'm opening a new department.


I need an editor, an honest and trustworthy man.
I see you're what you need to know, you're busy, but it'll be well paid.





"The debut of this issue: John Sloan, Elizabeth Lane's husband, leads our new section Building his House."




















Well, okay, but I haven't trained in a while.


Go on, darling.






Good morning.











The people of Stanfield would be honoured to welcome you and your guests.




















With new blocking methods and the use of plastics, we will decisively completely change the home.












We have to hit American Housekeeping with a new kid.











- I have to leave early tomorrow morning.

Is your last night here?

































It's all so beautiful.
It's so beautiful.
You're beautiful, too.








You're not very happy, are you?
I'm as happy as I'm entitled to it.




- Maybe we should turn back.

Okay.




If she cries, you'd better calm her down.



Good night.




















- Okay, Harper.











































- Okay.






- Take it easy.










It's morning.

Getting home at 7:00 a.m. doesn't seem so funny to your husband.







- When was the last time you saw the baby?




















It's a great time to ask.





- He's not here, darling.













I thought you were the best and most exemplary mother and wife.

























- Good morning.







- We're on the first shift today.
- Yeah, yeah, honey, bye.
- Thank you very much.








































- Think the worst.



And I think you're happy about what happened.




























It's so good to see you.

Okay, fine.







It was so nice of you to invite Jeffie here for Christmas.
We were happy.
Jeffie, there's so much I need to tell you.

















I think I'd better get ready, too.







- To break his poor little heart.































Good morning, Felix.

You're a good cook.

















































































You don't want to leave old Yardley, do you?







"My dear husband joins me in my daily work.



- You're a big trick, aren't you?














































- Okay.




















































I hope you'll be very happy.










"Dear Santa, I don't need a doll, I don't need a big red ball.
What I need is a pair of silk stockings.

She was 12 when she had her first pair of silk stockings, and the silk wasn't natural.








She prefers lunch at the best hotel in the city, even if he can afford it only once a month.







Hello, darling.


I'm sorry, honey, but you see me every weekend.







I don't need anything, thank you.





Honey, don't be stupid.




Honey, stop being a bank manager for a while.

Look, Joan, I've come a long way from Eckleshall, and you know how much I hate to show up in expensive places.





Come on, darling.



















- Today? - I need to catch the Scottish Express.


















What's wrong with you, darling?













- Goodbye to you in the morning, Miss Webster.


I'll call you in half an hour, okay?

- Very good, Miss Webster.






- Nice to meet you, sir.










Goodbye, Daddy, darling.



- Goodbye, darling.





Honey, don't worry about me.








- And I say he's good at 12:27.

My sweet, sweet Johnny... Lohinvar ship, departure at 1:15.









And you, United Chemical Trust, are you ready to marry Joan Webster?






































Good weather doesn't last long on the islands.









But now who's dead and who's gone to New Zealand.


































Okay. There's a big house upstairs.
















May I be the first to invite you to these marble chambers, young lady?







- Falcon, my dear Torquil.





Beautiful girl, her-god, beautiful.





I have a new interest today.
















































Yeah, at first glance, it's a little depressing here.











Good question, buddy Torquil.







Sweet Torquil, there's nothing easier than being a marksman.
After you put a handful of ammo in front of the local inspector, you need to find the rabbit sitting there, aim and say to yourself:








































It's a beautiful island.














- Very good.

- The best.

So you're tied to a small island like Kiloran?
- He's not that small.











- Do you need permission to do that?








We can travel in the morning if we're lucky.

- I'll see you in the morning.
- Good night.
- Good night.



There's a beautiful view of Kiloran.
















- Only on the first night.

- Good night.



Good morning, Miss Webster.
Good morning.





















Perhaps it would be better if we moved to the hotel.


Well, good.











You'll have a big room.
- What about you? I've got a little one.




- I don't think so. You don't have to be afraid the castle is cursed.






































He's just a little king.

















He's got the best gear from Glasgow, but the fish don't know him.









I can hardly wish them happy hunting.



What's wrong with someone building a pool?



































The first night, the pink rope broke.
















- Talk to me, darling.



I had a great trip.



Hello, darling.

At least I'm glad to hear your voice.
We're all here ready and waiting.

















He's one of the best.


Call them. They'll be happy to see you.
















Have a good day, kitten.










It's good to hear from you again, even though you're stuck in Tobermory.












- Thank you very much.



Okay.







































What? Big bird, anyway!

















Terrible lovely day, Kiloran.







- Good morning, Miss Cheryl.




























No, darling. I said that Robert's fiancée would be here by breakfast.


Sweetheart, we're gonna be friends.





Good morning, dear Cheryl.






- There's no need for words.


I just remembered that we need a fourth player for bridge.
We're going to old Rebecca Crosier's tonight.





So you're coming with us to see Aunt Crozier, darling?




It's good to see you, darlings.

Rebecca, darling, you look lovely!












Not with mine, darling.















I hope you'll be happy there.











If I have to give up my house, I'd rather not live at all than live on that money.






There's someone to look up to, darling.

- I'll have to check in with them.









Imagine: the harbour is full of yachts, big and small.
From morning to evening, there are regatas and people's walks.






























- Okay.
















- I went to Erraig this morning.































I need to tell my dad you're here.












Is that how you treat an old friend at his diamond wedding?





- Torquil, I have to go.


















And you, sir. Let me tell you, you were the best kale dancers.


You know how important it is for me to get to Kiloran.



- Good morning, Bridie.


- Good morning, Miss Webster.





- Do your teeth bother you in the morning?















- We need money to get married.





















But you'll be ready in case the storm subsides?


It's very important.












- Okay.





Will you do me a favor? It's very important.


If I had a big boat...
But I don't even have a little one.
















There is a difference between those who are in danger and those who need help.


I'm desperate for help.









































Well, I'll wait if I have to.


Someone's willing to drown a man and break a girl's heart just to get married a day early!



Who gave you the right to think our lives meant nothing and yours was more important than anything in the world?





































































































That's the way it's supposed to be!
















They'll recognize a good prayer there.




My dear boy, my dear, you have missed the most unique experience of your life!

While you were idle, a new page was written into the history of falcon hunting.






























But I thought you and Rebecca Crozier and Torquil were perfectly happy without money.






Good night, Katrina.




















Little lady always does the right thing.

















It was a year and another day, and she, while her husband was robbing the great land, ran away from Kiloran and took refuge in my castle from her beloved.



































And I say he's handsome.

My sweet, sweet Johnny.



















Thank God I'm just the racer that Boston Star let out of the world... to find the news.
























You forgot I'm an old SOLDAT...































Maybe singing in a cemetery is bad luck. It's not illegal.





























Oliver Davis, Boston Star reporter.







New days in Greece these days.
And the old bastards are worth nothing.














Big choice, low prices.






I'm on my first flight to England as soon as the ship's bell rings.






I'm sure Mr. Robbins will be okay by morning.







































- Good night, gentlemen.








It's just an old woman.




That's so good!






She's kind of a bad joke!




It's not that bad.



































I need your advice on one question...




- You'd better take a look...



























- I'd be happy to comment on them.




The General's absence is better than the disease in service.


If you're in isolation, it's only in such a nice company...










"Good wind," "bad wind"...


















- You'd better worship the doctor...






So you broke the first rule:









































































It's better to watch the wind with hope for luck than with each other without hope.






- Good morning.


We need to explain...




















You can be calm...






































Bringing the last one...











































You're an old fool! ..

























It feels like you're not fighting the plague, you're fighting something big with something unexplainable. Kira's afraid of the same thing.

















So after all the failures, you're willing to believe any bullshit? ..







Until I know otherwise, I'm gonna have to isolate you, and at the very least, I'm gonna use the last of the funds I know, and I'm gonna kill VARVOLACK!



Yeah, but when you wake up in the morning, do you remember what happened last night? ..










You're fresh in the morning and you're enjoying your life, and your lady is getting weaker and paler every day.

I'd be happy to be wrong...





But when I got here, did it make you worse?





But you're really getting worse...




Of course, I feel worse: time is good.


You're so beautiful, kind and generous...











Tea go where she went and be as happy as she used to be.






The island is small, I'll find you everywhere.

















We'll leave in the morning.






But even if there's no chance of recovery with us, you'd be better off.











- Tea, honey, what's wrong?






















Tea, I need help...



































Good morning...


































You'll be much better when we leave the damn island.









































































































It was a good show...

















- Nice to meet you.














At the beginning, we see Ansgar as a little boy your business, but I think Ibsen was overrated.













The old bastard's crazy about reporters. - And you?

















It's a big secret.

Sweet Charlotte, I swore to keep it and I won't tell you anything. Oh, that's how it is.








We have so much to discuss...
















Goodbye, sweetheart.




Okay, honey.














- The first May and the slogan: "The main roles for all"?










I'll call you in the morning.


Moberg's new play?





Find a good picture and make two columns, as always.








What I said was, now you're better off on stage four.

















No, he's just very nice.

Good night, darling.















Massage is also important...




So, from the first number, you'll get 300 kroner a month.


I won't bite you. A big one for you...




It's hard to imagine the worst performance.
I thought I was good...
It's just beautiful...
And now I'm old.
Terrible old...















- Good night to you.










- Good night, darling.














Tradition needs to be preserved.




They pay, of course, not much, and they don't have a lot of work to do, but you gotta start somewhere, right?

















Someone who loves art is willing to sacrifice everything for him. That's how it's supposed to be.

The last ray of hope is dead, and the worms are gone.


















And I was happy. I'm glad to see you now.





There's nothing better than Tatar meat.












The role is good, but I don't know if it's good enough for me...

It's gonna be okay, you'll see.















Oh, sweet Charlotte...

I have tennis in the morning.































The drama with the big letter...



































I need time to reflect on such a great work...


I'll come back when the trees start losing their leaves, but if I write a new drama, I'll let you know right away.










I need to sleep!












I'm gonna perform a shipment from Beautiful Elena.

"Great Elena"...






We need to send a telegram.










You don't have to sing anymore?






Beautiful Elena-- and suddenly Svensson-- what's your name?





















The idea of a new play came to me!


Beautiful Elena...























Yeah, and we need to get downstairs.


I don't know, but get ready for the worst.













But if a man sits there and sees a big, fried, juicy steak, he's not gonna be happy with the poor steaks!


I was promised a big steak.







I need something light.


Sweet daddy...




"Great Elena."





















Who would make the best Paris?

But the party needs to sing...

I have a beautiful voice.
























Do you remember Beautiful Elena?













Good night...
I wish Menelaus...



















The great ones also need rest.
And by the way... a talented actor is equally good at farce, operatte and drama.

Isn't this operatta too old?



There's gonna be new texts, libretto and script...



My little Carl-Hugo.
Honey... aren't you asleep? ..



The explanation is in the morning.


I thought I'd play "Brilliant Elena" and play Paris.









- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.












In a month, January 12, my birthday will be the premiere of Beautiful Elena!













But very nice.






I'll make it smaller...




Make it a little smaller...



It's gonna be okay.



I need a guardian...

You should have stopped me.

















































Isn't she beautiful?




















As my daddy says, genius needs rest, too.













She's gonna be a big success.



Of course, sweetheart.


- Good morning.


















No, thank you, sweetheart.



And you called me "honey"...

It's a bad habit for actors to call everyone cute.






















- Good night.
- Good night, Grandpa.








Beautiful...
Göran is so sweet...
Raised and good.






























Sweet Monica, he's not 50 and Freken Swedeier's not bad.





























But the shadows in the mirror need to be cut out.























Of course I don't have the best voice but it's okay-- you don't have to change your repertoire.




No one's gonna be happy for a little role in the operatte, but it's gonna be okay.





I'm a bad actor.
























Don't betray us when the curtain is ready to rise.
Dad, you don't need a scene.






















Two columns on the front page, here's the sequel...















Good night.
Good night, sweetheart.
My girl... today you're leaving us and the theater to start a new life...

"to a new life with Gueran."

"In a new life... with Gueran... "maybe marriage?
































Beautiful.
You're the most beautiful bride.


I'm so happy, though it's hard.









































How many times have I said you have to play, not feel! How can you do that?
Knowledge and technology are important.




Sweetheart...
Are you happy?












Göran, I'm so happy.




How happy I am to be a simple housewife...


























You need to know a little bit about the ships, 'cause that's our income.





Beautiful...




A new minefield has emerged.
Honey, I'm so sorry, but we need to get the ships out of the harbour or something.


They want me.


...about the 50th "Brilliant Elena" note.
Leave the big letters and add a picture of Senior Anker.


















It's better than sitting at home doing nothing.













Hello, darling.






A lot of important things...





All right.
Good night, sweetheart.

You need more sleep.
Good night...






















- Good night, sweetheart.






















You're worth more.



















If you love your Swede, at least hide it better.






There are rumors about us. That's not good.











I think it's a good idea.


Good night.















Tommy, aren't you happy?








































Hello, sweet mommy!
Okay, thank you...







Sweetheart, sweet daughter...

- I'm so happy...





Have a good day!









"The Last, 127th "Brilliant Helena"









Beautiful! Amazing!



Honey, you can't keep living like this.



















Honey, I want that, too.












Yeah, I know, but it's not that bad...










Sweet Stefan...







But the worst part is, I don't want to deal with it.

We don't need each other anymore.
























Hello, darling...















I'll tell you the truth. God knows it's better this way.








Betty, honey...



- Sweet Monica...







It's all set.






I hope he'll be happy with her.

I wish them well.























Important cases...



- Honey, I can't.







Tell me honestly, are you happy?











I tried to be a good wife...






















Happy and happy.



New season!



We need to discuss the composition of the company and the repertoire.
What's gonna be the first?






























My darlings, get out of here...























I think it's very stupid and expensive!










"The Royal Theatre has a new Swedish play..."















It lasted until 11:00 a.m.








It's a good thing the others aren't coming...

































We need to talk to Brodin so he can get Vega back.


















- He came first.


Good morning, Dr. Wadner.
Before you fire me, know that I'm ready to leave.



















But the paper needs you, and I will be merciful today.


Okay.
Very good.


Let's open a new item.







My father needs me.

But we'll always welcome you.

















There's a new premiere in a week.









Big success.




And the material isn't new...













I need to talk to you.



















My visa is ready.









The idea of free tickets was good, but it didn't help either.






To his dear Vega.


He's too old for a role and he's not gonna be happy.






Traditions are important, you can't argue with that, but it's too much for kids to show up in a bed.

It's okay, it's okay.


Good morning.





It's not that bad.







"Stéphane Anker once said in an interview... "that the great ones also need rest."


... and yesterday, in one of the best roles of his youth,......the student philosopher of "Calosh of Happiness."










































It's more important than Hamlet.








The worst is in front of...
















It's very bad, but there's still hope.











It's more important!




God, make sure everything's okay...














Don't be like that.







Sweet daddy...
We need to do something...

























Dad, don't.
































- Good morning, Mr. Anker.
- Good morning, Sister.


- Doesn't he feel better?


- Good morning, Dad.
- Good morning.

Okay...

She's getting better.




























I played my last part.



Old sailors who boarded don't live long.

You're not old at all.
No, very old.


You don't have to blame yourself for everything.





You need a different woman and I need a different man I'd be happy with.
















What a beautiful weather...













My dear Stefan...






Am I old enough?
I need to look 60...








- Last call. - Yes.












And a turn in the middle of the last line.







The beard is beautiful and don't forget that moment.







































Her beautiful garden is mimosa, camelia and mirth.



It was so beautiful in the moonlight.
And the little house?

Remember I told you your father was sure, sure! You were supposed to be a boy, and he built this for you and your babysitter, like everyone else, for his wonderful family in New Orleans.


He threw you in the air and called you his little angel.
Sweet baby, don't go there.







It looks so crazy and sloppy and dirty, just like that old woman who was limping on a pier in Paris selling fish to my poor, dead, dear girl.

It was that lawyer right there, Mr. Osi, told her that your father was forced to marry one of those bumpy aristocrats, just like he was my little Rita herself. She didn't believe. She hoped he'd only marry her.




Big grief.



















And I'm as good as them.
I'm better than all of them.

I'll be more important than them.




The men are gonna lose their heads for me. Your mom was cute.






And the jewels are beautiful outfits and whatever I want!








Ladies, I know why the old chimney won't pull.



I came from New Orleans!



Now I know what mom was supposed to do. You remember she always said a saying from old Louisiana.

"and two mirrors to reflect her and he'll be happy."
I got a chandelier and two mirrors, but I'm not happy at all.



















I know. Mom said sometimes they're there on Sunday mornings.
Everything. I found out then they're going to church. I found out about them.





Half as beautiful a young woman, skinny as you.
Ha and the old crow like you may be the same, but now they won't be so sure. Maybe I won't be either.





America is so cute.
Big and cute.


















Is it as beautiful as it is in France?














Okay, Angelique, Cupid, take the shopping home with us until we're safe. Do whatever the old crow wants.
What kind of cute cha-fleur is it still?








It's a good time to go to the lake.
Ma'am, I haven't seen anyone as beautiful as you, and you're gonna drive an old punk like this, not to mention these two knuckles, I'd be honored to drive you out of my wheelchair with a pair of long tails. I brought them from Texas.



I'm not letting you... handsome.
He's so handsome.



















Oh, Angelique, let's not fight. I wish it was a happy day.
Okay, honey, we're not gonna fight. You just focus on what we were thinking.






I'm so sorry Madame this table is reserved every Sunday morning for the Doulain family.

They'd love to.


























It's the first time I've seen anyone rushing into New Orleans.












It's hot here in New Orleans.
If it were mine, I'd have a dozen handkerchiefs of the most beautiful matter for him and you'd embroider his initials in an incredibly sophisticated style.



Beautiful plyssed tissue and his initials on it are also initials, initials what are initials?
His initials, whatever they are, I don't know what the hell these horns are, but I'll try yes monsieur. They say all the dishes here are good.

Leon, tell that gentleman in the white hat if he's having trouble picking his own breakfast I'll be happy to help him ask him maybe he'll agree to sit at my table we're old friends fast, dirty slut!








I don't know what we're laughing at, but I haven't had so much fun in Texas for a long time, I've been told that people in New Orleans are more reserved.
In New Orleans






In Paris, everyone's eating with Ketchup now. It's the last chic at Paris dinners.



I'm not French. I'm American. But I was raised in France. I'm Countess de Trignon.






Look, honey, maybe I was born in Texas.




He's been there every day for a week, trampling the earth worse than his horses, but today he's not going anywhere. I'm going.













I like this tall cowboy from Texas. He's handsome on horses. I heard he won $1,000 last night at the race.






Only bad things can happen to us in New Orleans.


When there's a much better man around you. Ah, you're a little... you're going somewhere?
I wasn't going to New Orleans to be locked up in my own house. I'm going to church for what?





If you were a bird suzette and I would be a gun. I'd shoot. You'd fall. I'd shoot. You'd shoot. You'd die. My dear precious. I love you. I love you.
The house wouldn't be home if it didn't smell like a good cigar where did you hear that?
That's what mom always said darling about, did she say?



They'd lie for you if you think I'm lying to you.



It's awful to tell me about her about the cutest little lady in the world.
Blue eyes, I thought you were talking, golden locos and so small that it only gets here how nice and when are you going to get married to her?



No, you're gonna be too gorgeous guests to ask why I don't marry you very, very rich and respectable and you're really gorgeous no one can have all women of two kinds or good or bad, and which one are you?
Well, from my dad's point of view, I'm very, very good-looking, and you could say that I'm very respectable, and from my mom's side, I... as if I didn't bother with your gentle hearing.

Mishura, I forgot all this. You're a little girl wearing her mother's long skirts.



You're leaving New Orleans?



I told you, though it doesn't matter to you that I'm going to the North for a race in Sarotoga.

Is this a good place?

















And what happened to that cute Texan that he wasn't with that pretty girl anymore?"
Oh, Clint, I'm so happy Clint. Say it again. I'm so happy Clint.

I'm so happy Clint. I like listening to your voice. He absorbs me like butter wants to come home. And you'll come back even better. You'll hear your voice screaming. It reminds me of the night sky of Texas.
















Oh, yeah, we're together now listen to Miss Clio but when I wasn't happy before, maybe you, me and Cupid together we could make her happy. I'll never hurt her. I want to help her.
Even if she wants a rich husband who's important and respectable?


Do you want a big pie by lunch tonight?





You can brag about me, sweetheart. I like to brag about you.

Never mind, sweetheart.







It's a continental custom, honey.




Tonight you look so happy. I'm happy.
Honey, you're gonna roll the carpet. Calm down. Don't run around waiting for who?
I've been calm for far too long. I've been putting up with this Charlotte and those Doolains, being careful. What do you mean?





I'd break all your bones. It's not a bad idea. You're right. It's a rotten idea.

Maybe that's what it is. Maybe it's worse. Maybe you killed who?
From the big gun you carry with you? Oh, is that right?




You're not my man. You belong to that little lady in Texas. There's nothing to mock women in Texas. They could teach you some things. Who could?





They said it was better for America there we learned the Amreician idea and your mom got hurt, too?


I swore that when I grew up, I'd find them then you'd have to, and I'll do it very soon. I'll shoot them or I'm not.


Yeah, she wouldn't hurt a fly. I'm sorry, honey, but shooting a man and killing him right in the heart... no, she didn't kill him. I know, I know she tried to take the gun, and he accidentally fired.






No, first I have to finish here. I have to have money. I have a little... I mean, money, but I can play for the most part. Honestly, honey.














In the letter you asked me to come to your office, but you ignored this Mademoiselle Countess. If you'll excuse me, I thought we'd try to be honest and straight about okay, well, I'd like to tell you I don't belong to old New Orleans traditions.
I believe in new times shipping times are over. We won't discuss shipping.





You were right to say that you didn't belong to the old New Orleans.
Your manners match the new times. I wasn't looking to meet you. I'm living in my mother's house in peace.



Good day, monsieur. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.







And I'm leaving New Orleans within a month.





I have a certain influence. I can create big problems for you, not like I'm your client. What if we say 10,000?





I don't want to get dirty eyes on him. This property of my mother agrees when she went back to New Orleans. It was the most expensive thing for her.
New Orleans was her home.

- Rita Dulain is my favorite wife, but my dear child.


How do you think Charlotte's gonna be happy to see me?






You're very beautiful. I think.
I'm lucky, aren't I?
Put it down with what we're taking with us, the rest of us sell a good show. You showed that lawyer how the destroyer became sentimental and practical.



And my dear Countess, and this is the beginning he thinks he's hurt me for living.




















I'm sorry. I heard you and I could help. I'm going to the Saratoga Springs Hotel. I won't bother you.











I speak a little French. Oh, no! I think this is your first visit to Saratoga, Mrs. Doo Schenfrez, isn't it?
I read French much better than I say.

Your best room for Madame Countess!













It's really nice to meet you, ma'am. I have three rooms, just to stretch my legs. I could share with you. No, I wouldn't like to kick you out of your rooms. But I don't use them all. I'm gonna go pick things up and you can take them.
How kind of you, Colonel, uh...





I feel like you're a friend. I'm happy to be of use to you. I think about your dear mother's telegram. I hope to enjoy her company soon. Goodbye, Mr. Van Steid.







I don't have to explain myself to the gossip of the hotel. She's very nice. I'm telling you, I don't know this lady.
Lift up your bags, keep an eye on the luggage. I've got a housekeeper and maids. I'll send them here.

Well, it looks like that's all I have, ma'am. It's so cute, Mr....

Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Have a good day, ma'am.




Thank you very much if you need anything... how are you, ma'am?

I'd love to hear it, ma'am, but I'm afraid it'll scare Bart off.




You have to get used to my darling. You know why I'm here.



I wasn't sick on my own. Would they be smarter to send you back to New Orleans?
I'm glad I came.


What values? Mom's old dresses?
I have the money to extend this summer. I want respectability of comfort and safety. We shouldn't get used to each other. That would be awful, wouldn't it?

I have so much to do before I go to bed.
Stop sulking like a baby and talk to me!










Little soldier!






Oh, good morning, little man. How long have you been with the Countess and where are you from?
Oh, you think I'm an old cow, don't you?



Take a sip, sweet little sip. It's magical.



You mean Bart van steed he's gonna be too busy to bother you, honey, yesterday I heard he's gonna leave on business.



many years ago, his mother bought him for fun at first it wasn't a big railroad now it's up to a million million?




Well, it connects the coal lands of New Pennsylvania to New England, definitely worth a million, and he knows that?







That's what they need stocks to fall to the limit and he buys cheap-- rails, cars, butter, who is he?



Rub my leg, sweetie, a few hundred million.

No, honey, no, I don't mean for you.
Well, no one knows. Don't stop.



Sorry, honey, I've been thinking about my arms scratching like I'm thinking about those funny rocking chairs.

Poor little Bartholomew Van Steed

Don't worry about little Bartholomew. He's got a lot of support from one of New York's richest bankers. He's a buddy with a house on Wall Street.


Iron roads! Why do I need railways?




What did she eat? What's up, sweetheart? Angelique's here!

What made you so vulnerable, honey, what did I say?


Stop yelling like a mad mare first you're happy then tired now you're sad or do something else like that again and you're gonna be alone oh what's that?








No one likes him as much as she did in Paris before we came to New Orleans before she met you. She sleeps sometimes a day, sometimes two, three.





All right, let's go to the track, if you want some fresh air won't hurt us.






Clint's mom is cute.













Okay! Where's Cupid?



Good morning, Cupid.

He said I'd stay with you and the old crow. Oh, of course, to follow me. Tell me what you found out.
What's with the big shots?




She speaks French like everyone else so... okay, listen both of you be careful and considerate.



Your best silk!









I thought I'd try your water this morning.








Good morning, Mrs. Du Schenfrez.

Greetings to Saratoga, and I'd like to say that I was happy to know your late husband, dear Beambi, I'm afraid that's impossible?



But dear Mrs. Bellop!


No one can talk to Mr. Sul if Mr. Sull doesn't speak first.
Good morning, Mr. Sull. It's so good to see you.






Good day, Mr. Sull. Beautiful conversation.






She disappears for two days than she intrigues everyone and shows up, the first thing she does to the great Mr. Sul, but she went to the source.

Don't be stupider than you seem, dear Bini. She's genius... and she'll go far.
One more drink, Angelique. I feel better.
Good morning, Mrs. Doo Schenfrez.
Good morning.
Good morning.


But you have to let me take you back. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.







Railways, railways-- I almost lost my mind-- I'm thinking about moving to the cottage the next morning for quiet, so he was talking about the railroad?








Good morning, Mrs. Do Schenfrez.

I met Mr. Sul and he wanted to know what I had against him.


Ma'am, I'm glad you're talking about me. You shouldn't be so hard on me, Colonel. He's on your side.











I have to thank you for the beautiful roses. I'm happy you enjoyed it... and don't forget Mrs. Doo Schenfrez-- you're having a great lunch with me tonight.
Honey, aren't you mad?






You should be grateful to me 'cause I'm thinking about your future, you're gonna jump in again and I'm gonna crack your cute nose in my face and without you there's a plan.


I don't need you to mess this up... because I'm a woman and I shouldn't think I've always respected women's logic, but in Texas, it's the men, the people who wear pants I act in their best interests, and you're causing problems at the speed of the locomotive.




Everything can be so much better. I won't let you stick your long nose in my business.
A woman can talk me into being fooled by a woman, but she's never gonna catch me with her lovely ears and take note of what I'm talking about.
Honey, I think that when I marry someone else, I'll still love you more than anyone. May heaven help someone who wants to tie up their life with you. Wouldn't want to be in his skin for even a million. I hope he has more than a million.
If you mean little Bartholomew, his mom's chasing hot girls like you're flies, his mom's not cute here.

And he's gonna listen to her because he's stubborn and important and he's gonna have to choose the woman that attracts him more than his mother.
I'll be stronger and more desirable and smarter to see, honey.

Honey, honey, honey.









Everything here is incredibly expensive.
Too many francs is only one dollar. You don't have to worry about these things. You're always so beautiful.
Beautiful. You're so cute.








I don't want to think you're lonely, Mrs. Doo Schenfrez. You're such a popular woman in the big world.


woman in the big world

She decides to go on a trip to good old America, that's what a woman in the big world means.

You called me Clio how sweet as a friend.




You can't imagine how much I'd like to do for you friendship with you, the most beautiful thing that's happened to me.









I bet 1,000 it's okay, Colonel?
















Worse is the wild East we hang people for less crimes than you gentlemen do jokes for

Maybe it's better if the minority shareholders take care of us.






Cats seem to meow louder than usual this morning.









You haven't eaten anything, honey.



Isn't that what you need? Why wouldn't he send the jewels?


I can get you a diamond tie pin if you want, honey.

Beautiful!
That's good, Countess. I often remember that day in the French market.


Business, playing card roulette, you know I love being around you, but I haven't had a chance to pay attention to you now that Bart's here, he's ready to do whatever you want, and why didn't you send Cupid with a note?










It's too bad you're planning on falling apart.


Yeah, too bad, too late.






came this morning with claws and fangs on, the rest of the cat's vortex is telling her right now in the square, wondering what your cute face would look like in scratches?





Good morning, Countess Colonel Maroon.


She's heard so much about you. I'd love to meet your dear mother.
Good morning, Countess.
Good morning, Clarissa.
Good morning.





Nope. My dear husband was here once.



And I've met all the famous people who've been staying here any time I've been looking for old and new registrations but I haven't found Count Du Schenfrez. Are you sure he's staying here?
Incognito when a French diplomat comes to America, sometimes it's better that there are no headlines.

I've always told dear Etienne his desire to be invisible, so stupid.





Clarissa, I've always said not much to merge with Saratoga society to take you as Clarissa, you call yourself a lady, but what do you mean by that?






She's an old witch. Thank you so much for your help. Goodbye.


It's important.

No, it's better in your room.



Except that you're young, smart, beautiful, and you have two young admirers who are worth it, poor Bart, who the old witch holds behind the coat's fold and you could be very rich if you showed common sense.













Look, my girl, I know you're not a Countess de whatever it is... nor am I Queen Victoria, but if I tell them who you are, if I support you, all these old purses.

And I'll say you were great real, dramatic, very plausible, but right now you need serious support from that handsome Texasman, you don't need a smarter woman than old Van Steed, especially the one she's scared of.





Oh, you think so badly of me. I'm helping ordinary hotels, becoming fashionable, advertising them. I put Saratoga on the crater. I made Newport, and let someone say otherwise!


'Cause I live with my wit, no one can compete with me everything I say and do they take hurrah 'cause I'm not afraid of anyone. It's very important.
In a way, you're just like me and I always know everything about you. I have connections in New Orleans.









For a great success and marriage to someone who loves her with your blessing, she's already got it.


I forgot to tell you, honey. I have to go away for a while.











Look, honey, you can't travel with Colonel Maroon because you're a respectable widow.



'Cause you couldn't calm down until you put those little initials on my shirts and handkerchiefs on me one day I'm gonna wake up and see a big "K" knocked out on my body.

It was different in New Orleans.


It's bad, but it's very nice.
Clint, honey, don't leave me alone. Take me with you.



I wanted to go to prom with you on Saturday. I thought you wanted to go with Bart, but... you better go with him before, honey.



What do you want with a man? It's money!

Mom and all she took out in New Orleans, and all I saw in Paris, it really hurt!






Put on your jewels like I say they're women's best friends.

Hey, Al! Are your guys ready?







Damn it, if I'm crazy, you're good!



I'll teach you to put your big ears in the lockholes.




Get out, you little... I'm a man, Mr. Clint!



Like I said, no shooting, just fists and sticks, only if they start first.





First stop, guys!





Oh, my God, my God, is that bad?










It's a great country.













Cupid, you little son of a gun, get out of here!







upstairs looking for... fast, my dress why aren't you here when I need you so much?

I hate it. I'm sorry we didn't stay in Paris. I'm sorry we didn't stay in New Orleans.






I think that's the last time we saw him.






At the hotel, everyone's talking about it. They had a big, dangerous case.














that important cow.









Good girl, he'll be here soon.
Of course, he's all I want to do. I have to run.



This trick, I inherited it from my husband when I caught him with a chorus girl. He kept denying everything, looking me right in the eye to the end, telling me that he didn't do it, believe in a little lie.



I'm really beautiful, aren't I?
Am I as beautiful as my mother was?






I'm Clio Dulain... and I'm perfectly calm.

Dear Bart, good evening.




I've noticed all the strong men have stomach problems. I've come to escort you to prom. Oh, that's nice.

How's your dear mother?







You don't have anything to do with this beautiful head of yours. It's a man's business.







You know, you're so beautiful when you're angry with me, women with the power of the spirit.

















Good news comes fast, doesn't it?





Yeah, bad with Colonel Maroon, did anyone hear anything specific?





We think the little dwarf got hurt. You want me to hit you in front of all these people?







Oh, Clint, honey!





Maroon and I are the last thing I've ever heard of him.




Sweetheart... yeah, Clint?

Oh, did you wake up my sweetheart?

No, my dear, never, ever, ever!


To leave you the sweetest little girl in Texas what?
That looks like an angel. But, honey, I've changed. I've never yelled at a guy. He doesn't look too low. He lets me wear pants. But now I'm just like a mom. That's right. But I've always remembered you. I don't know what would have happened to me without you.

Yeah, look, honey, look, even though my neck now only deserves a rope for the things I did, although some flowers are crooked, but I tried to take this alien for you.






Honey, that's all I wanted to know.












- Beautiful watch! I don't know.






It's... it's beautiful.


Well... all I can say is that we have the best boss in New York.


Thank you, my old friend.












That's very nice of you, boss.































- Yeah, every Sunday. It's a good way to spend time.


- Good night, Chris.
- Good night, Charlie.


































Good night and thank you for everything.

Okay.




- Nice to meet you.






















It's beautiful.









Well, you're not that old.


























I've seen a small painting like this for $50,000!
























Yeah, I think it's the greatest pleasure to write pictures.







- Today was the last play.











Here's the address. Good night, Chris.





Good night, Chris.
Good night, Kitty.







It's good to see you.
It was a good party last night, wasn't it?

































She seemed nice and quiet.
















Can I have a better one?


















He's rich, he's very famous, and he's also very nice, Johnny.

Well, I could've gotten a lot of money.
I only needed $50...













But I'm breaking my head trying to find a little capital and it's under your feet.
You don't have to call him like that and take the pathetic 50s.




I've met guys with money who've thought twice as much as I do, but the ability isn't enough!
You have to have the money to make the money.
















You don't have to get out of this idiot at once.
We need to find you a decent apartment.


















A new model for $45.









No, honey, I haven't had wings in a while.









Of course, but all I need is him.



















You know, it's very important... feeling.







The painting is a good painting. It's like a love affair.












- How much do you need?

I shouldn't have told you.






























I should probably be angry, but I'm not angry.


- How much do you need?


I need $500.

All right, Mr. Cross.
But you need a sponsor.




- Thank you very much.
- Always ready to help.
Write that old jade Hogartha to raise your salary.





















But I don't need a receiver, you need one.



He had a good salary.
He gave me a good apartment.










They were bad, even when you were copying cards.








The Happy Hour is already beginning, darling.



It's the Happy Hour, which is sponsored by the Happy Hour detergent.
No soap will give you more pleasure, nor more purity than the washing agent of the Happy Hour.



























The sooner the better. - Yes.








A lot of people are willing to pay decent money for them.















Well, at least it's left after you blew the money tonight!








I need at least $1,000.




















- Thank you, darling.
I didn't think you'd leave. It's only 10 minutes one.










The last time I saw Johnny, he said he was going to Hollywood.


























- Nice to meet you, Mr. Cross.








- I'm with you, honey.

I can't think of leaving you alone... darling!









Oh, Johnny's a good guy...
Maybe a good one, but...





Are you happy?
- For the first time in my life.
- Very happy?













Oh, don't talk about it, darling!

It's... it's expensive to live like this.




Communications! Contacts, getting to know the right people...
You have to have an agent...

- It's nice to get dressed, to be beautiful.
- But Kitty, you're so beautiful!

Clothes, good perfume, need to be impressed.
An actress needs $1,000 just for a decent wardrobe.
















I have to go, I'll be waiting...


I'm sorry you have to go...
Bye, darling.













I may not understand, but I want to find out more.
















































Bring more, and we'll do a good business, Johnny.


It's one of my best paintings.






- Does it matter?









































You should have heard him!














The largest specialist in modern art in New York City.





































I think we should introduce ourselves.










- They're very good.

















I know how good they are.

























I'd love to.







How long does it take you to write a picture?





That's a very good description.
That's how I see it... the painting is a good painting, it's like a love connection.



















I'm glad you're here to help her make her decision.








I don't know what you told him, but he's ready to eat from your hand.




















Beautiful work, interesting manner.









- Johnny's a good guy, Chris.


































Nice piece of cookie...





















She's got a great talent!




Hogarth needs to be careful!

Not this one, honey.


Janeway said that new paintings... are the best thing you've ever done!




You'd be better off if he kept looking like that!
It's good for you to say, and my ragged nerves?

The kid's gonna have a big diamond ring and a gorgeous limo...








Forgive me, darling...
I needed the money.













Yeah, it's funny, but there's a big difference.


You're a big artist, Chris!







I'm happy!

Chris, you're so good, so kind.










Yeah, this is the first time I agree with you, Janeway.









































I see you need Adele. I need the money.




























Don't you think your wife's worth more?














































































It's love, sweetheart!
































I wanted to laugh in your face from the first time I met you!
You're old and disgusting, I'm sick of you.




























All right, Mr. Hogarth, you can tell.


















Not very expensive, but he stole them too.



































My copies were bad, so bad that I destroyed them.





















































Johnny, honey...
















You killed me, Chris, you're old and disgusting and you killed me...






















































































Bad news? Someone's been avoiding a date.
An important face?

























































What do you want? Excuse me, does Francesco live here?















I need to talk to him.


It's better this way. Wait there.













We stormed the bakery this morning.












I didn't know I had a small favor to ask you.














She's not that bad, she's just stupid.



































I'm here for you. It's very important.



All right, let's go.









You, priest, do not understand that we must all be prepared to defend ourselves against a common enemy.










It was some kind of holiday this morning.















































He's gonna stop at the bridge and he's gonna whistle on Florence morning. But you probably don't know that tune.







No, thank you, you don't.

























It's bad for my modesty and for my safety.




























It's just that, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, it's Early in the morning.






Okay.



Is there something wrong with you?

We know we're gonna get sick of a lot of things, and we're gonna do it all the time.







Honey!





















I'd love to have a chicken in here. Please don't-- but you still have to cook the soup.
Okay, okay.











I have to go, unfortunately.
Maybe tomorrow morning? Okay.










What does he want?













He's so kind, so famous. Sometimes I think, 'cause he could easily find someone better.




We believe that we live according to the laws of God. And neither of us thinks we need to change.















The Germans were there again this morning and turned it upside down.






Very good. What did he say about me? He's worried.






- I can't figure out how they caught me. We need to try to figure out what they know about me.



We've got a lot of circulation now.






























Lie down. Why would I do that?








I'm the last night here!






Look, don't fight about the last moment.

Good for you, you've got other things on your mind. I'm going to bed. Turn it off.










Good night.













Okay.
Let's sit here where you and I talked the first time.
















She'll be especially beautiful. Because we're gonna be free.
You have to believe it, you have to want it.
I know it, I feel it, but I can't spell it out. He would have found the right words.






And we'll see a new, better world.








Good night.



This morning, our Manfredi was seen in Erenastino Square.


Forgive me, my dear Major, but I have much more interesting news.





















But why are you always the last to praise him?










































- There's a sick man out there who needs my help. - It's the parish priest.














































You'll be fine there.








- It's 6:00 in the morning.







Georgo, help me. You'll be very good here.


You have to be careful.





Hello, darling. I finally got out of your way.







Pina kicked you out the first wedding night?







My foot will be no more about her house. - Marina!















I'll call you in the morning.
Good night.






























Marina, do you really think that happiness is about having a nice apartment, beautiful clothes, rich lovers?









































Don Pietro, if I'm gonna feed the boy, I need--




Okay.
Come on, darling.




We need some intel.

































But at the same time, I'm calm. - It's weird, isn't it?































I hope to be as good as theirs.



































































Listen, Signor Ferraris. Believe me, I respect you very much. And I appreciate your courage, your dedication.
















We'll destroy you all. All of them! To the last!






















- Come on, darling.
I need a drink.



No need for new martyrs. They already have enough.












It's not hard to die well.

















- It's a good thing she's addictive.

























I'll start when you're ready.






Nothing, it doesn't matter.














You were a happy little girl, weren't you?
Do you want to go back and be happy again?






























- Why not, Miss just puts a bad mark on you.













I played so bad, I knew I didn't have a chance.















If you need to call me something, call me Nicholas.
















You first. - I see.











































Those first weeks with Nicholas were the longest of my life.
Sometimes I wouldn't say anything for days except "Good morning."

Good morning, Nicholas.
- Good morning, James.
- Good morning, sir.
































It shouldn't be, I don't need you.






















He instinctively knew how to get more out of me.



Okay.








The next morning, when I got up, Nicholas had already left.


That first month of college was the happiest month of my life.


Doesn't make the weather for me if I have a new friend or not, I'm not worried.

- You weren't worried because you were happy.










In a small cafe where most students go to lunch.
It's held by an old Italian who was a violinist in La Scala.


























I have more important things to do!





























And after a day or two their feet bring them both to the place of their first encounter.
















- No, I'm fine, thank you.

























At the last minute, her courage was gone.














- Can't it wait till morning?
- No, it's important.













Yeah, good night.





Francesca, before you go to bed, pack your suitcase, we're going to Paris in the morning.









































































Finally, Nicholas decided that I was ready for my first concert performance.


They're beautiful, thank you.
Are you ready?


Use your time. Don't give me a sign until you're ready.







I'm Miss Cunningham's very old friend.


Honey.

Honey, how sweet of you to remember me after all these years.







The first one was so complicated.













Honey, you gonna put that down?


She wasn't playing well out of her hands. Terrible failure.
Just imagine Francesca failed her first music exam.









Goodbye, darling!

































It was the first time in my memory he did that.
Are you ready?









If I did that, it's because I want your life to be as calm and as easy as possible.










Okay, that makes sense.





Okay, Thursday, we...
Are you ready?












- Ready? Miss Cunningham?

Good luck, my dear.






Except for the secretary's opinion that he's on a big stage with an orchestra.





































Maybe I've met too many beautiful women.































- Yes. If you do that, darling, it's only in your sleep.








You want me to stand up like you need to, huh?




























Better?






You're the most beautiful woman I've ever painted.
Not because you're beautiful, but because I'm in love with you.




Last time you were here, you said something that really bothers me.











I was happy in a life built for me.







That's very... very good.






















A town with an old temple on the hillside above the sea.






We could be very happy.






But what, darling?



Max, it doesn't matter, but how are you gonna make this work?





























What do you want?



My life wasn't happy.

You're the only thing that was beautiful in my life. I can't live without you. You should know that.




























What's wrong, darling?
















Hello, darling.

It was an accident, darling, I couldn't prevent it.

But I'd rather die.











































Okay!

Isn't she beautiful?



























- All she needs is a break.





Miss Cunningham is the one who's gonna pay for this with more suffering.


















I'm willing to take the risk, Doctor.
Very good.



- It's a good thing you agreed to meet me.













She's supposed to be important to this case.




















It doesn't matter.

























Do you remember the first time I asked you to play for me?









When you're like this, I'm ready to do anything for you.

All you have to do is make a decision.
















- I don't need a doctor, I'm as healthy as an ox.
I'm very glad to hear it.









When she came back, the first thing she did was come to see you, here.























- I need her at this address, do you mind?










He's the face of a new religion called swing.







- You were on the last experiment he did?












Wouldn't it be nice to get your time back?














But... you have to prepare yourself for the new Francesca.
A new and very different personality.







- I'm trying to tell you, do you want to be the one she loves or who she'll be happy with or who she can't live without?



















Good morning, monsieur! See?













But it's not just color, is it, Chief?

Is the note... supposed to be beautiful?
Not pretty.










They're little flies, monsieur.
These little flies are signs of great negligence.
Or a great malice.


























That's very nice.




You don't look that old.








It's the last batch of the evening! A hundred for the tour!








Place your bets! It's the last batch of the evening! Place your bets!


What do you want?




































Satans is the first knife-thrower in the world.





They say she's very beautiful.
You're very beautiful, too.

It doesn't matter to me whether I'm beautiful or not.


I'm glad we treat this the same way, monsieur.







Well, Miss Jeanne, I'm very glad I met you this evening.












































Did you happen to spend the night with the bad girls?





It's an honor.
We're very happy.



























- You don't have to.




























How many tickets does it take to sell for the show to take place?
You have to sell 40 or 50 places to pay for it! And that's not the whole score.







The first one's cut off, the wind's flying.














A beautiful, transparent angel doesn't want to break up with his soul!














































You're big artists, and you're with me. I'm honored.












Are you happy here?







People who seemed so big when I was a little girl.


Oh, it's a very beautiful castle, Frank!








I'll find the right words.

It must be beautiful here.

It's not perfect enough for you.
































Little Jeanne.





















To buy a small cafe somewhere in the province.

We'd have a little garden.

What? Looks like things are bad!


I'll need it in the morning.














The pants in "Little Joke" become horns!

















I thought you were beautiful and stupid.


Buy the little angel back!





- Okay, I'll wait for him.

























- Because I need you!

Can you understand that someone else might need me?




I don't see all the beautiful things I'm supposed to be staying over.





All the worse.











- I have a beautiful one for you.











Love is beautiful, isn't it?
I'll pay you back, but I still need two hundred thousand.



But listen, my dear Monsieur Davis, life is not "yes" or "no", just like that, on the move.


I need to ask... call.





- How much does he need this time? - Two hundred thousand.






The last one can give him the address of your club. Don't be in a hurry.





Alas, our financial position does not allow us to give you this new amount.



I'm worried this is the first time.
He said on the phone, he's got a big case.


















If I were you, I'd leave with my little win.
Better be careful.












He'll be happy to find me here when he comes back.





It's a pleasure, Mr. Frank Davis.





Luck is like those nice people who always say no.


- But would you accept a small loan?
















Now I'm gonna ask you for this little signature.








































I wonder why all these beautiful things are for a woman who can't see them.

















Frank, my dear!


















You have a bad memory.















I'd better get out of here.













It wasn't for beautiful eyes she married that scarecrow!







They say you're very beautiful...











Is she really that beautiful?








For me, every new dawn will be the dawn of a good day.



















Would you mind giving me a minute, my dear friend?


I'm sorry, but I don't want to put any pressure on you at the last minute.











- Don't.
















And crazy love for a beautiful woman is quite common madness.

Okay, Chief.
What a night, my dear!
Our first Christmas Eve.
Music, dancing, everything was new to me.











- Okay, monsieur.







- Nice to meet you.







I'm glad to hear that.



It's not possible, you know it's as good as me, Mr. Director.

























Under the last letter of signature. See?




He's still a big artist!


Dear Frank, these security gentlemen have come to me.










- What is it, my dear?






























Good story for the allegory.






















We're all very happy.










Dear Monsieur Grandel, we rarely see you here!












- That's not very nice.


















What he needs is...



































Aren't you happy and happy?


I'm gonna see this world again, which I barely saw when I was a little girl.













My dear.



'Cause it would be nice if you went back to your wife who looked into your eyes.

Madame, how are you feeling this morning?










No, darling.




I need to be alone.


Forgive me, darling.
















We went through the wrong paper, we went through a bad performance.
All the better. Maybe we'll finally solve his secret.
































They've already leaked information, and there's a possibility of new carelessness.



These notes are the work of a great professional.








My world was locked in this little cart.




































I thought the world was beautiful, but it's so ugly, poor, dirty!









































And you know, they're not that bad.









Shh, shh, shh. You don't have to scream so loud.






Good evening, dear madam.










- Didn't you know your husband was making very beautiful drawings?















Imagine a seacape, dear madam, with two allegorical characters.




















Well, let's not talk about it anymore.

Let's not talk about it anymore.









I tried everything to make him happy!








A little man with a big bag.




How beautiful you are in this dress!


It's so good here!




Besides, he doesn't need it anymore.


Mine's very small.















It's bad.








I'll tell him you're even prettier than before.


































There are moments in life when a person needs to breathe and see the sea!















Well, you came, that's nice.


You're a good girl.
























Where have you been, my dear?





















But I'm guessing your new dream.
Old, ugly, but rich husband on one side.
On the other hand, a young and beautiful knife-thrower.



































It's good to see you here.


































































































Guys, I'm gonna need a couple of people to get this on the plane.


































































- Nice to meet you.





Come on, let's sit in the radio room until we take off, and then we'll go down to the nose and look at the good old S.S.A.






- Is this the first time you've ever flown one of these?
- Yeah, it's actually my first flight.



But I couldn't imagine what could be so beautiful from above.



















































It's gonna be okay, sailor.






In my family, I'm the first person ever to ride a plane.



I remember as well as my own name.





All I want is a good job, and in the near future,..the house is big enough for me and my wife.






















Jackson's old school.
- And this must be the new airport.









Some people look like they're new.


We need to get out of the nose until he's ready to land.













- He's got the best place in town.























- Oh, honey.
It's good to see you again.








It's just your mom's glad you're home.























































- Not now, I have to take a bath and shave.


Honey.














Actually, I'm awfully happy.
















- Good to see you, my boy.


And look at all these beautiful patches on his chest.

































Well, I'm glad you're home, my boy.
It's so good to be home, Dad.



Thank you very much, Dad.



The Japanese attach great importance to family relations.


































Good night, Dad.




Good night.
See you in the morning.

- Good night, Mom.
- Good night, darling.
It's a good thing you're around again, Dad.











But you... you told her about the things she needed to know about?








It's okay, honey.






It's terrible to be old, isn't it?





First thing in the morning, I'll go out and buy some.






















Well, I'll tell you, as far as I'm concerned, we're not gonna have the best times in the country.














It's okay, it's okay.



You know, I always thought he was a handsome man.



- Don't, Wilma, sit down.

- Thank you very much.








You know, they make good salesmen.
























Good to see you, kid.


Homer, my old friend from the ship.







God, it's so good to see you at home again.




















I'm glad you decided that, Homer.








- I think it's the best place we've ever been.













Oh, I heard you put on a new neon sign, didn't you?


Yeah, that's better.


Here's a good place.

























- Nice to meet you.








Okay, Butch.









- What did she want?






















Until there's a new war.
Then there's nothing to worry about, because we're all gonna be torn apart on the first day.




That's a great idea.















You're a charming little creature.








Okay, I promise I'll take note of that.









What you need is a drink.























- Good night, Al.
- Good night, Butch.




Good night, Millie.

- Good night, Fred.
- Good night, Al.
All the best for you.


Good night to you too, Peggy.





Good night.
I'd better wait and make sure he came in.






That's a nice couple of them, isn't it?

I think they'll be very happy together.
















Good night.
Good night, darling.
Good night.
Good night.




















































All you need is rest.






























For the last time, yes.





Okay.


That's good.










We're very glad you're here.




- That's good.








Yeah, good old Al.




- I'm much better now.
- That's good.







I think the best of them are already married.
- Good morning, Fred.
- Good morning, Mrs....





I'm afraid I don't have a good appetite this morning.







You just got into the bad Butch's and had too much.







I'm ready, Fred.





- Bye, darling.





















































You were so kind you didn't even mention it this morning.





- Maybe it's a good idea.






Freddy, darling, why didn't you let me know?


- Freddy, darling.


Come on in, honey. I can look at you here.












- You were looking for me, honey?















- Too big.























Well, not so bad, no.
























Why do they bother me on the first day of my presence at home?







- Why not, darling?














- It's so good to see you again.

Good to see you.





I bet he came back looking for a job.


I'd like you to meet our new manager, Mr. Thorpe.


- I don't want to go back to my old job.

But Midway has a big team.






You have to understand that since this biz changed the master, we have the right not to commit you back to your old job.
I wasn't thinking about old-fashioned guns.
I'm looking for something better.
























He's a very good man.








Thank you very much.







No, the circumstances aren't very good right now, Al.



















You see, we have a lot of new problems.
For example, this new law on the rights of members of the armed forces.

We need a man who understands the problems of soldiers and at the same time who knows the basic principles of banking.










After everything you've been through, you need a vacation.












- Thank you very much, Mr. Milton.
- Glad you're back, Al.

Of course, honey.


















- Holy heavens, sweetheart.
This is the first time I've ever seen you in civilian clothes.
Well, from now on, honey, you're not gonna see me in anything else.









- Whatever you say, sweetheart.


What a nice scarf.

Freddie, honey, you're adorable.




Little black flowers growing in the sky.


- She's made a big trip over Germany, baby.
- That's nice.













But this is the last time.


- Is that so bad?
Seriously, honey, you need new clothes.


But I've been told that something new can't be bought right now.


You can get anything you want if you know the right people.




About a thousand bucks straight from the treasury of the old good United States.


You know, honey, it's all so great that I can't even believe it.



































































Okay, I'll show you.






















Good night, son.
Good night, Dad.








What's the matter, honey?

No, darling.
































You were talking about him when you slept, honey.












Okay, honey. I'll get rid of it.



















I'll make you some delicious food, sweetheart.


It accounts for 34% of sales and an even higher percentage of profits.












- We're selling a new van foam this week.
$1.98 for a big jar.




- Good morning, Mr. Brooke.
- Good morning.

- Good morning.

- Good morning.
- Good morning.
Good morning, Mrs. Garrett.





- Okay.











From one small island to another.









I see you have a pretty big family.




I got caught in the eye by a cute piece of property.












I'm a good farmer, Mr Stevenson.






With this food deficit all over the world... farming looks like the most important job for me right now.














































I'll let you know when the papers are ready.





















These are pretty expensive.


But they're good, good bet.


..this perfume is good for any mood.
Okay. I'll take it.
Very good, madam.






Thank you very much.



Thank you so much and come again.




Okay, I'll buy something.


But you don't need any of this nonsense.



If you don't take it, then you won't have to take it.














- Okay.

- It's very nice here.






One: I knew I'd never go back to that pharmacy.



Just a nice little house for me and my wife out of town somewhere around here.






Well, maybe you'd better...?




Thank you very much.


















- Novak seemed like a good loaner to me.

































- And wish me all the best for your charming wife.




And put on your new suit.
























Well, then you better get used to it.








Good people, these Merillas.
















































It's good to finally see you.








- Good night.
- Good night.


Give my best to Fred.










Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to be here.
Anyway, I'm happy to be anywhere.
Anyway, I'm very happy.
Maybe it'll be a good idea if you just leave the bottle here in front of me.

- Good old Al.
I'm glad to see you're all so successful.







The knowledge I acquired from the old good bank,.. I used an infantryman in my service.


He says, "Okay."







I think there's an important point in this little story.





There are some who say that old banks suffer from arteries clogging and heartlessness.
















Thank you very much.













Oh, they're fine, except for one little detail.














To prove to yourself that what happened this morning wasn't really happening.







Okay, I'll be there.













I don't want to get involved in your personal affairs, but here's my advice, darling, grab him as soon as possible.
Woody and I are just good friends, we don't have an affair.















- He'll find something better.


You can't be happy in a marriage with that kind of income.
You know, Peggy, you're so cute.
But if you don't mind personal advice, you need more makeup.
And I think you could make yourself a better haircut.


Woody's gonna be yours anyway, and happy life is gonna be yours.











We need four copies, honey.

Yeah, sure, that old hypocrite is always that way.
You expect him to fire you in the morning?

He's gonna be really supportive of me again until I lend another loan to some poor guy.



Come on in, darling.






I'm glad I went with them.

It takes courage, sweetheart, and you have plenty of it.













































I'm so old and clumsy, I completely forgot what it's like to have deep feelings for someone.

Isn't that right, darling?



You fell in love, and you got married in a big church, and you had a honeymoon in southern France.







- It's okay, honey.


















































I'll do everything I can to keep her from you, help her forget about you, and marry her to a decent guy who can make her happy.
























- Let's show Al our new thing.




- You ready, baby?




















Said it wouldn't be fair to his wife, and that we shouldn't date anymore,..because I'm obviously one of those girls who takes things too seriously.









I'm glad these jokes are over.
I'm glad I won't see him again!








Good to see you.























I'm tired of an old pair of hands.

So I sold them for a couple of these, the latest model.








































And the sooner we get smarter, the better we...



































If you need someone to testify at the wedding...





Well, knock on the door when you need me.





- Okay, come on in.
















Maybe it's a good idea, Wilma.


















Okay, Homer.



























Good night, darling.

Good night, Wilma.











Okay, thanks.

Fred, I want you to meet Cliff Scully, my old friend.

- Nice to meet you, Scully.



You won't be welcome anywhere with that attitude.
I told you, Cliff Scully is an old friend of mine.






















He's just an old friend.










I gave you the best years of my life.












Good idea.
You'll find a good job somewhere else.

Found an old sweater.





- I don't need them anymore, Dad.











All this means is that I'm gonna start a new life somewhere else.

The kind of guys who fought and won the war are needed here.


But I know when it's best to get off.











You'd better ask the pilot.






















You're worried about old memories, aren't you?

Well, you can look them over for the last time.















Someday I'll be glad to hear the story of your military feats.












And when I see her, I'm gonna play the first note, then nod your head, and you're gonna start singing.
Okay, let's try it.




















- Good to see you.







- Good thing you're here.
Good to see you.




Easy, kid.







Big day, huh?

















- Come on, darling.











Good to see you.
Well, what have you been up to lately?








Vilma's ready.










Dear beloved, we are gathered before the eyes of God and these men today to unite this man and this woman with the sacred bond of marriage.



























































Don't laugh. She's very good.









































He says Madame doesn't have to say anything.















So I can't leave in the morning and be at the mouth of the river.







Good morning.























Easy, darling.






That's good.






I need a place to come after my duties.


I came here to teach because I need to support myself and my son.






That's why we need our home.
It's very important to me.










Fine, you're afraid of him, and I'm not.









Unfortunately, you're here for the new year.
The new year is more important.

After the new year, there's gonna be a Songcran festival with fireworks.
















I wish I'd seen him.






- It's a new year.

Here's a new year in April.






Okay, honey, I'll find out about dinner.





















Don't you dare, darling.




I'm sorry to have to wait for a new year and cremation, but at least a white elephant in line for you.


First, how to behave in the presence of His Majesty.























Madame ready?












Your Majesty, may I introduce the new governess Anna Owens and her son Luis.















The fearless are a good trait for the scientific mind.
Perhaps you'll be a good teacher.





You'll teach my wives everything you need.

Okay.




















I need time to learn.









Good day on the horoscope.
Very well, Your Majesty.






Come on, darling.

I don't know, honey, but we'll find out soon enough.























Birthday's a happy day.







One is bad, the other is thin, thin.
They don't mean you're bad.











It's a bad day for school!

Excellent, Your Majesty.

















I am prepared to obey all your orders regarding the duties of the teacher...





























- doesn't matter what I said.


Mrs Owens has kindly changed her plans and agreed to live in the palace and is prepared to answer any questions about her studies.















Good morning, sir.











Good morning, sir.





It's an old saying:












write a good letter.








Good morning.

"A deal is more expensive than money.

And there's nothing nicer in the world than home.
Home, sweet home...


There's nothing nicer.








Good morning, Your Majesty.













It's the last drop.











We need to save strength and skill to save what's left of Siam.


Many years ago, I asked you to leave a peaceful life and become king.

































Very nice.
















I think we'll get on the ship in the morning.











Because yours is waiting for an even bigger triumph.




No matter what you ask, I won't.









How is it possible if the king has new whims every day?





I think I need you here.






























But I'm willing to die for him.



















You'd better get him out of here before class is over.
He's gonna be good, ma'am.



If he makes people laugh in this dark place, that's good.




Ma'am, don't argue with the King's new wife. You're gonna lose.

























































It's very important.


I think I can have a big cup of tea after today.






Honey, what happened?





They only know how to fight in one way - to hold a big pole and beat each other's legs.


It takes a lot of art.













I think it would be much better if you were friends.



That's better.









What does he want at this hour?














Couldn't you wait till morning?





I need to read all European books to understand the modern world.












Three o'clock in the morning!












He's ready to buy her out.

How can she be happy with a loved one while I'm locked up here?




















I'm sorry, I need to see the King right away.
His class is very good.










Maybe her slave isn't that important.























- Very good.
















3,000 can make a very big noise.

But this is more important, Your Majesty.





























































We, for our part, are prepared to provide you with elephants and elephants and to send them to you in pairs or more at a time.









Good morning, Lady Taptim.
I want to show you something very beautiful.


He says I'm the most beautiful and charming woman in the palace.
It's a beautiful gift.
- He's a thousand times more expensive than a slave.




It's probably more important than you think.







If I'm not the first one here, what am I left with?

















It's just the way it works here, darling.









Your Majesty would certainly like to see beautiful women in England.






You must select the most beautiful women in the harem, dress them and teach them European manners for predation.
When should they be ready?



















So now they need to make proper dresses.
But wouldn't it be better if they met Sir Edward in their usual clothes?



Well, okay.

































I think you need to take care of your top clothes, ma'am.




But it's important to have lunch.


You're gonna set the table on your own, so it's the latest European fashion.




They're beautiful.























You are required to sit until His Majesty presents you, then you must stand up and bow.














You're beautiful.
Really beautiful.












It doesn't matter... Miss McFarlan will like the pink water.
































I felt really bad.


And I'm very, very happy about it.
I'm very pleased, too, Your Majesty.















- If you want, darling.





























And I think you'd better get back to your students.
























It's a beautiful story and it's a beautiful story.














You don't want the truth!


Madame has a lot to learn about.





You'd better know right away that it's none of your business.


























































Okay, honey, but hurry up.




Are you ready?
"Dear friend and teacher.

We really need you.








I haven't seen you much lately.










They're very beautiful.



It's a thin young tree. Like me, when I was young and became my master's first wife, he's a big tree.




And here is my lord, the big tree, growing fast and tall, trying to reach the stars.



And I, a small tree, race and break.


A very small tree grows next to me.



I try to hide him, but I'm a very small tree because I'm a woman.











To be needed.










They need to be sold, I'll take care of it, ma'am.



Are you feeling better today?
Much better.




Ready to listen to me, ma'am?

"the unexpected misfortune of this beautiful boy's sad death caused great grief to His Majesty and to the royal family,































































You need peace.




It doesn't matter what I do.




Ma'am, I've got more work every day that's getting harder. It gives me a lot of confusion and anxiety, and so on.
For example, now I need to know why geographers say it's an absolute monarchy.





I am also concerned if I should send a delegation to a large exhibition in Paris.

It's a wonderful idea, Your Majesty.





It's very important, ma'am.

I cannot, Your Majesty... madam, have you forgotten that work is the best medicine?















Very good, ma'am.

Okay, ma'am.


I found out His Majesty was done with the old textbooks, so we'll wait for new ones.













If you don't come, I'm gonna be really sick.
















Maybe for the last time.



















Let him read them.
Are you listening, old friend?



"Then I think it's important to think about those who helped."







So if they're better than their parents, it's because of you.









That's a good word.



















Let it be our first command, not a great feat, but just the right and proper thing to do.










"Beauty and Beast," action one.










Bad!




















What a beautiful creature!

























My sisters are too beautiful.

Beautiful, you're the most beautiful!


































These gentlemen will forgive your mischief as soon as the D.A. does me a big favor by suspending all the hearings that were initiated against me.

One of my ships has arrived with an important cargo.











- My darling!
























That's a very large sum.








If there's nothing left from the last ship, what's gonna happen to me?


















You're not lucky today, or worse.
































Still, how beautiful in our stables.












His power is too great.


I'm old and I gave him my word.














Do you love that stupid little girl?
You're gonna make a good couple!


























You're not gonna see me, except for 7:00 every night when you're having dinner, and I'm gonna come to the big hall.


















I want to know about your little whims.















It's an honor.
It's an honor.


















































Is he really that handsome?



What's the name of this young and handsome man?



















































I'm giving you the greatest proof of my trust in you in this world.






You'll be there this morning.


























If I had run away, I would have done great harm to him and to you.





I bear his presence, and I'd be happy if I could make him forget his uglyness.

















My dear princesses, when you're poor, you work!







How's your father this morning?
























Goodbye, my beautiful!





































This little fool is happier than we are.
















































Adelaide, my little sister.








I'm so happy!
We're so happy, so happy!



















































It's beautiful, but how do we get to the castle of the Beast?
































































































































But also, love can turn a freak into a beautiful person.
















This is the first time I ever hugged you, I was a monster.
Are you happy?
















Good morning.


And handsome, though you probably know.











You're beautiful.














































































I know he was a good man in everything he did.
I'm glad to hear you took him as... whoever he is...

























It should be added that a man who has lived a life like mine, and who for the first time paid attention to a family of my age, deserves everything he gets.





























I don't need money right now, but then I'm gonna charge $25 a day plus expenses. - Okay, sir.






















What's your first step?






















Don't play hide-and-seek with me.



















That's cute!























You don't look like the person who's interested in the first editions.





First edition?









Maybe I should see Mr. Geiger.


































Well, Geiger's a little over 40, medium height, massive, a little bit full, Charlie Chen's mustache, well dressed, wearing a black hat, pretending to be a great antiques expert, and I think he's got a glass left eye.
You'd make a good cop.















It doesn't matter.












You're beautiful.




You're beautiful.



He's handsome, too.





Okay, Riley.










I need help.

Yeah, she'll be fine in the morning.







Is that bad?



- Ready to do anything for her?












Good night, Mrs. Rutledge.







Good night.
























That Irish bootlegger the old Sternwood hired to make him a drink?





















































Good morning.



















Maybe it wasn't such a bad idea.









That's a very nice picture.















































You'd better talk to my mother.






































I'm Eddie Mars' best client.









I'm glad you said that.























About those first editions, it was just a trick.

















You'd better come tomorrow.
- In the morning? Early?















Better at night.






































But you're ready to tell the police that he did it?





























Go on, sweetheart.


Do you have a better one?







- The law isn't good...










































































I think you'd better get out of here.









Okay, I'll be here until you call.























The first man was Eddie Mars.






































































All I need in this case is a picture.








- I need a picture.

- I need a picture.














You're beautiful.







































You're not the first, you're not the last.










Okay, I've been following Geiger's house.







There was a big "Packard" just outside, and I looked at it.




This morning, he was taken out of the water near Lido Pier.



























- I want to find out what Geiger had on the Sternwoods. - Fine.










































Better than yesterday.



















I don't need the money yet.







We're very grateful to you, Mr. Marlowe, and I'm glad it's all over now.



















































































Okay, come on in.





























Glad you could make it.











I need information about Sean Regan.


























It would be nice if he hired you for a permanent job to keep his daughter at home.
























Less curiosity.















































- Are you ready, lady?
- Yeah, I'm ready.




Good night.









I'm glad I asked you to take me home.
















All right. Starts with what Eddie Mars has on you.














Even better this time.
Okay.



















Okay, but I'm not taking you home anymore.









You're beautiful.
Every minute I get better.










He treated me like a little kid.






Is he handsome?

Is he as handsome as you?















I'd rather buy it myself.























One beautiful.






But now we've got a big sister and someone else as suspects. Two murders later, I understand that someone has something on "beautiful."












"Brilliant" won't let me see him.





































Have a safe journey.





























That's better.










She's good.





















































What do you want?









She needs to get out of town, she needs money.









What do you want from her?











I'm not gonna hurt her if it's like you said.










































Do you need them?
- Yes, we do.






But your baby deserves better.







































I wish you'd changed it yourself. I'm busy, I have to paint the car.













































Eddie never did anything wrong to you.

We were just good friends.









He's a funny little guy and he's harmless.



But the Canino your husband hired got to him first while I was standing around like a fool.




































That's better.














- Okay.










When Eddie Mars' wife gets my car fixed and he finds out what happened, there's gonna be big trouble.





































I just shot your best guy.


























I came first, Eddie.












































But everything changed because I came here first.

















































Isn't this a beautiful day for a walk, darling?
Aren't you happy to go for a walk?

You can't be mad at old Sam, 'cause until someone falls...

Oh, honey.
Why, darling, do you always get in trouble?



It doesn't hurt, darling.













Oh, honey, let's not fight again.




















But, Jeff, darling...



















And the first thing I hate is horses.















Merry Christmas, Mr. Hodges.











I must have brought you a dozen old swords by now, Mr. Warren.







And a distinguished historian of the Old South,



You mean, love my books, darling.







For you, darling, merry Christmas.

And you, darling, "Merry Christmas sale."






Isn't that wonderful, Mr. Hodges?







What are you, sweetheart, the regiment's daughter?



Come on, darling.

To make your legs look thinner, darling.





Yeah, when the kids were little.
Tell me, sweetheart, where--


















































Honey, aren't you happy?
Aren't you happy?




























Okay.




























Where is he, sweetheart?

Isn't Jeff nice, Lance?











It's a very beautiful canvas.


He's beautiful.

The tail is important to the horse.
Yeah, he's handsome, Jeff.

I'm not claiming an expert, but he certainly looks like a beautiful stud.










Well, not too old for a race with obstacles.






Beautiful Albert, Jeff.














I hit him, I'm glad.



Nice Christmas!
All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right.
One of the most beautiful. I remember.


Where's my beard, darling?




It's a good thing my nose hurts.



What are you doing, darlings?




But, honey.
That ship was very nice.
What did she do to you, darling?






Come on, darlings.
Your little fuckers are waiting for the funny old St. Nick.




And if it's okay, try not to fight anymore, darling.



















Well, by New Year's, there won't be a whole window in the house.








Now we have a good gift for Grandma.







But, Mom, I wanted to shoot first!


Your Uncle Todd, darling. Then............................................


Funny old Santa has more presents for you.
Well, my good kids, what's in the bag?
I hope it's not my sweet old elf.



Yes, my dears, isn't this fun?
We have to go.




Let old Santa go, my darlings.







Now, just let old Santa go.






It's a very good rum drink, my boy...




























Now, dear Mr. Warren, after your invitation to speak at our convention, we have decided unanimously to surprise you and to present one valuable relic for your little museum.





It's an honor.



















Here you go, darling.


But you can still meet our dear Mr. Warren, which is going to be an important event, isn't it?






I'm just worshipping your books, Mr. Warren, especially the last trip to Mississippi.











Darling, dear Mr Warren.







Isn't that right, darling?










Oh, darling, dear Mrs Warren...













All old harmless traditions.
Well, I hope you have beautiful gifts.


























Yeah, I liked it, like you said, "Well, I hope you'll have great presents."






Your poor little children!






















It's the last drop!





Even your presents are bad.











No, I'd better shoot myself.




How we like it, sweetheart.









That's not what's bothering me, honey.



Boregar." For example, Boregar said, before the first battle in Manassas...



"As Boregar said before the first battle at Manassas..."







I'm afraid we girls are somewhat embarrassing dear Mr. Warren.
But I'm sure he won't mind one little, official kiss on behalf of all the ladies.






Oh, my God, honey.








Her job is to sit in the front row with her legs crossed?











Okay, damn it, if you feel like this, then why did you come with me?








I think she has beautiful legs.
Beautiful.





You said you thought of her as a little girl.





Artistic temperament with old and new.














It's 1:00 a.m.





Call the manager, darling.














Oh, no, honey, not that.



Knock on the wall, darling.




Oh, no, darling!












Well, after this trial, you need a drink.
















- Nice to meet you.
- And I'm very happy.




It's okay.






I'm very sorry, but it's 1:00 in the morning.




- Good night.

- Good night.
Good night.


Good night, old man.

Good night.

Okay...

Christmas is over, and there's no mistletoe, isn't the wish for a good night's good excuse?




















































































There's no need for the judge to look into all this again.


























Good morning, Mrs. Epley.













Where are my old shoes?












I think maybe I need some help.





Let's say he's in bad physical form, huh?






Good morning.








Good morning.




I can only speak for myself, my dear.

I'm really a very good secretary.























How nice of you to...













Miss Sally needs you, you need to prepare.



Best shot at the stables of the Clear Valley.

She's wanted it since she was a little girl.


All the best, huh?





















But for a horse, Mr. Jeff, you're gonna need too much stuffing.








Have you seen my old hunting saddle?

































































You need a secretary, and I'm a very good secretary, honestly.





























Oh, getting rid of the kids, darling?

















I wonder, darling, why do you care who's in there with Jeff? You guys are separated.









And you think the sweat of little legs in his house is gonna keep him from doing that?

















Very possible, darling.

Yes, darling, to your father.

Here, take your old needle.


Thank you, darling.





So, my dears, your father doesn't know you're coming and he's coming, and...




Isn't your mom nice if she thinks that?









Maybe she knows some good, new games, and you can all play.

Here you go, darlings.



Tell him we're good, and Uncle Lance will be here soon.










Okay.

Don't be dramatic, darling.











New Chapter....................................................




















Daddy has to go and think about beautiful words.







Little favorites.



After all, it's very good of Sally to let them go to me.
Okay?









Read the last page, please, Miss Medford.




























Kids, servants, jerks, no time to drink coffee, my best pipe was stolen, my stupid razor, my pen is running, and for the fifth time in a row, we had tapioka pudding!









































































Old Albert!

















If, of course, Jeff needs a walker.









Hello, my darlings!











































Yeah, good morning.

















Because your publishers think it's important.






I'm just trying to be a good secretary.










































I hope so, darling.







Ready?



Why are you wearing such tight boots, darling?




Ready?


Ready?






Your lunch is ready.





It's better to lower family values, Mother.

















We should at least try.


































And the kids, darling?



All right, then Uncle Todd.















































Whoever finishes first gets a big piece of syrup pie.














































































































He's in great shape, ready to race.







They left this morning.





And Mr. Haynes is the best in Virginia.









I think we're gonna win, honey.































He needs to be shot.









That's a very good idea.
Very good. Okay.







A lot of gorgeous horses and the best amateur jockeys in history will compete for the Cup.

































Albert is entering the first corner. It's his horseman's sensational venture.



The rider is Mr. Jefferson Warren, and I'm told this is his first run with obstacles.






I'm so glad this is over.













Number one, refused to jump.





































Turn the first circle.





































Although he is disqualified, Albert is the first to cross the finish line.





















Oh, honey, will you ever forgive me?



Honey, you hurt yourself.








































Loyality is a good quality.





















All I need is the opportunity to do legitimate business.


You're in a good mood.
Beautiful view and attractive secretary.













Well, she doesn't know her powers.










You know, there are big playgrounds near 52nd Street.



-...and always ready to answer. - It's not a misdemeanor.






- Okay.





Here's a good secretary.






















Okay.












Good night, Mr. Galt.
Good night, Kathleen.

All right, go.






Okay, spill what's in your pockets.
You do good casting, don't you?


Okay.









Okay.







































I have bad memories of names and numbers.




Beautiful.
You need William Powell as secretary.














But those are very good words.



If you stay, you'll get in touch with crooks, suspicious lawyers, murderers, or worse.








- See you in the morning, boss.





Good night.



- Mrs. Reynolds, it's good to see you.
- What a lovely party.





Good to see you.













- Nice to meet you.







We present a beautiful picture of beauty and monsters.





Remind me to say, my dear, that I love you.


















- Yes. In the morning.





I'm very proud of you today, darling.




- Very nice, Hardy.






















Okay.


Yeah, she's good.











- Okay.
















You're a bad salesman, Brad.




- I was looking for you this morning.

What do you want?

















Besides, I need you to notice that you've created a mother's instinct in me.









Okay, but remember, I can get a brand-new 10 cents bandits for a dozen.





It doesn't matter.



Good night.
- Good night?




Okay.





You need to calm down.














- I only remembered the first part of 5-3-H-9.



































Good night.
Good night, Hardy.




























Two years, less time for good behavior.


That was the last time I heard of him before the White Suit last night.











Okay.



Honey.



I'm glad, darling.






I know, darling.

Are you upset, darling?



I made a bad deal, and I'm tired of being with him.



Hardy can afford to be with you, but he doesn't make you happy.

Tony, darling.



Honey, I have jewels.












What do you want?








And if you don't understand, you won't have such a cute face.










Nice lipstick, baby, whoever you are.

- Honey, who was that?


























































You promised to show me this new Rafael.


She was brought in this morning.













Just the passion of a true collector, my dear.






















- Yes, darling.


Okay.
- Have McDonald close the vault. - Okay.



Okay.


























He needs me.












- You need $200 to get out of town.
I need two hundred bucks, small ones.









Okay.
Okay.

Okay.








Listen, honey.






















































































- Okay.








My thumb, baby.



- First floor, around the building, on the other side.














- Okay, okay.

- I don't want your $5.


That was my last lead.



Very good.



- It's me, darling.


It's 10:00, darling.



Okay.
I'm sorry, honey.


I don't even think about it, darling.




Wouldn't it be better to go then?


Doesn't it matter?
But it's a job for him, he's highly qualified in such matters, he's got a lot of experience with the law in all its ugly aspects.


The problem is as old as the world.

















I mean, she's too old for him.
Love is not just for the young, my dear.






- Good morning.
- Good morning.


Maybe we should've hired a press agent.


If I only knew who was after me, it wouldn't be so bad.







Okay.
Okay.


But don't put pink glasses on me and tell me everything's gonna be fine.

The maid will come into my apartment, look under the bed, and I'm in a good mess.


























Okay.























Okay.













































- It's a good thing we got rid of her.










It's important.

- You know, sweetheart?







Honey, how about five cents?













I don't know, honey.

Okay.


































What luck do I need?



Okay.


































Touch the beautiful one in the gallery.
















He's a big, tough guy with a broken nose.














- Good night, Mr. Kathart.
- Good night.
One of Donatello's most beautiful works.











I understand that a small purchase doesn't give me the right to special treatment, but I'd like to see it.





- Okay.













- Good night.
- Good night.




- Okay.
Good night.
- Good night.












- Have you seen him lately?

























































You put the evidence on me, but when the police start digging, they'll know you had a better motive.










Good night, Reeves.
Good night.


We have business tomorrow morning.



- Okay. See you later.


- Good night.

















You owe me $1,400, and I really need it.





All I think is that I need money.





Good night.






































Well, bye, Ray. Nice to meet you.








If I sell the last one, I can go home.













Excuse me, you need to find another partner. I'm tired.


















































But I think I need to eat something to calm my stomach.



















My father has the largest coffin depot... in those places.
















You see, boy... it's good to live in a cocoon and wait for you to turn into a butterfly one day.



I'd rather stay home and finish my commercial course.
Well, say good night.

That's very nice of you, Miss Goff.















All she has is a barn and an old hunting dog.


Tell me I looked happy. And promised to visit her soon.
















It's a lot of money, boy. I took them.






















































Listen to the advice, you don't have to piss off the sergeant.
I just need a place to get settled, even in a cell.

To do that, you have to commit a crime.



- I don't need any more help.









I think you'd better go.



























You need to get down on your knees and pray.




I need a bottle, Edna.








We'd better wait in the dark.













- They're gonna start looking for me first.
- But what's good about...





































Looks like she had a big fight.













Okay, that's my problem.




























My friend says we're the first ones to leave without drinking. That's it?



Beautiful blonde.
I almost fell when she got in a cab. Beautiful and lame.






Beautiful blonde, lame.








































My dearest friend in the world.


My dear friend.







- We don't need girls.
- No, you don't.













You need to go to bed if you have to open the warehouse tomorrow.













- Don't I try to be a good wife?


















What do you want?


































Good night.



















Good night.


That was your last dollar?


Good night.





You look happy, weirdo.
I'm glad you're back.




























Good night.


My dear, you're sweaty.















Very expensive.


God has created many disgusting things... but there is no one worse than a woman with a cold heart.











































































































June, I think our ancestors are living in a better world, but Steve Brody would risk it.




















I didn't come from great love.














In a way, I'm almost glad it happened.












Every minute brings Alex closer to the last hour of freedom!


But the cute kid?























- I don't want any trouble.








































At your age, it's nice to fight for the future, not blame the sun for not being able to light a cigarette.




For the greatest joy in life, they stick poison labels.










The restaurant has good grapes.























































Call me "honey."
























I'm willing to die for that girl.





You wouldn't believe it, but for the first six years, I shaved before bed every night.
























Are you okay?








There's been a murder here. Let's face it.



Do you think I need a gun to keep you?






Don't write anything down. First rule.





























We're gonna win first place this year, Babe?

















Okay, you have until 6:00.



























Okay.


































- Oh, great.




























- Are you feeling better?
































































































I doubt it, but I'm ready to discuss it.





























Are you ready to sign a confession?
I'm ready to go to bed and fall asleep for a year, that's the truth.















































































You have a beautiful face when it's sad.





































































I'm not a happy man, but I've been teaching for years.

























He needs to catch the bus.
June, he's got a great temper.













You should've been stronger.

We need to catch the bus.
















My dear cousin Abigail...













"- respectable and honored members of your small community.











My grandfather became her second husband after her first death.







They're descendants of the first Dutch patrols... and they're terribly rich and elegant.
He must be a very important man.




































I don't see any reason to discuss it, but your mother pretends it's important.
It's really important, Efraim.
Maybe it would be nice for Randy to live in a big house... and see the world outside this farm.


You're 18 years old, and you're pretty good. It's time to settle down and find your husband.

And as for your important relative...




The Yankee farmer is no worse than some Dutchman from Hudson.











"Abraham rose early in the morning.




I'll think about it in the morning and pray.



























Oh, how beautiful!



































Music is very good.





Alexander the Great, being younger than me, won most of the world.





Martin is an old friend of mine and, of course, if he's nominated, my farmers will vote for him.






It belonged to my father and his father before him. It belonged to the first patrol to come here in 1630.





As a farmer, I say it's better to have half an acre naked rock than to cultivate the richest land of someone else.


Cousin Nicholas, are they the new waltz dancing down there?








Glad you think so, sir.



Good night.
Good night, cousin Nicholas.
Good night.



Good night.






























The wind must really be very pleasant to touch such a beautiful face as yours.










Don't you think I should go to my room first?














I hope you're happy here.


I'm sure they're very decent people. And I'm sure you'll be a good girl.



- No, honey.




- That's it, darling.









Oh, there you are, darling.


















And that ugly old clovesin.



She was from New Orleans.




Did they fall in love at first sight?
Van Raina never does anything at first sight.
But she must have been happy to live here.










I'll sit still, but if you want to leave for peace, my dear.

Well, good night, then.
- Good night.
- Good night.
I think I have a new music you'll like more than Ludwig Van Beethoven.













It's the first time I've seen them.






- Good night, then.
Good night, cousin Nicholas.


Good night, Miranda.
Good night.





- Unusually beautiful.







He didn't want her at all.
He needed their son.




















- Good night, then.
- Good night, Magda.

You think Catherine needs a date?

Don't you think Catherine needs his parents?









Upstairs, hook, left... and ready.







































- Am I gonna be a bad girl if I watch?

































- If you're sure it won't cause you too much trouble.


In fact, the first thing I agree with him is your arrival.













This chair came from Holland with the first patrol.

Patrol's ready.
The first person will come forward with the lease and the line.









Are you ready to pay the rent? Nope.


































If Klaus had killed you, these people... would have had a lot worse than your life.

I'm gonna say a few words about what happened, and these are my last words.







Excuse me, Mademoiselle, but aren't you Miss Wells, little Catherine's companion?





I'm sure in honor of you and dear Harmon, they're making so many festivities. Yes.






- We'd love to.





We were just discussing a nice Cornelia wedding with Harmon van Brock.

















Very good!








How's lovely Miss Victoria Shermerhorn?

















Why do you think you're so much better than me?





Of course, it's just my humble opinion, but I think you're the most beautiful lady at the ball.
That's very nice of you, Magda.











- Do you think I'm beautiful?
- The most beautiful lady at the ball?









You know the answer as well as I do.


- I'm as good as all of them!














When you're with me, Miranda, there's nothing to be afraid of.








I've never felt so bad before.













I can't remember when I was so happy.

I know how you keep it safe. And so I'm even happier that you thought you'd bring it to me.
I'm glad you're happy, my dear.



























Sorry to interrupt, Mr. Van Ryn, but it's very important. - Yeah?









What do you want from me, Doctor?




































What a beautiful oleandre!
I'm glad you don't see cause for concern, Doctor.




Good night.
Dr. Hamilton usually recommends you eat more. But he's, of course, older and more experienced.








- That you like me, that you need me.










Of course, my dear.

I'm better now.




On the day of our first meeting, summer at the festival,..
I thought we had a lot in common... and that in time there would be more and more.
















It's so beautiful!




















It's just... well... I remember when I was little...







There's Mrs. Van Ryn, she's very sick.





























You'd better go to bed.
Good night.
Good night.



We were never happy, but we lived together until Catherine was born.
And then we found out Johanna wasn't gonna be able to have kids anymore. That I wouldn't have a son... that after me Van Raines wouldn't be, that I would be the last.











Miranda... you knew as well as I did that it was inevitable... that we were inevitable.




You knew about it the first time our eyes met and everyone inside met us, too. And you know that now.








Good night, Miranda.
Good night, Nicholas.
























Well, have a good trip.




It was a good sermon today, Father.










You were the first to notice it a few months ago and bothered me.





You don't sleep or eat because your house isn't good enough.
And you're unhappy because we're not good enough.
















And on a very important case."
























Besides, you've been ironing that dress every week for the last two months.














































A lot of beautiful words.

Miranda, this is important to you.









- Who's in the new lions?

























And everything was just fine.


With the new music room.






Anything important?



You guys are gonna eat lunch to the last bite or we're gonna have a lot to talk about!


At least she managed to burn my best negligee from the Indian muslin.

I'm doing worse than cooking.


I'm sewing worse than I'm ironing.












I'm telling McNab to give her more money and a good recommendation.
It's such a small request.



I bought this for you at Mr. Tiffany's new store.






Madame DuClos said your dress would be ready and delivered on time.





























You believe there is a God who spends eternity spying on people.. and punishing all violators of the final pastoral sermon! ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪




















- I'll pray God makes him healthy and strong and happy!

- Yeah, are you happy?





Now we have a new governor, John Young, and New York State farmers... have the right to celebrate and get drunk.



Tom Wilson, come here with all your money and harvest... and thank the kind, sweet palerun for taking them.
Now you don't have to. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
John Young is the new governor, and the constitution has been changed.



- We need you now.










Okay.
















- Honey, you just don't know.






















That's good.

It's gonna be okay now.





I'm always ready to help you.















































































I'm willing to try if you help me.




































































You've been through a lot lately.

I don't remember when you were more beautiful.





































And I must have heard that night when our little son...




Called in the best traditions of a knight's novel by a faithful chrome.






I'm glad to hear you've become more careful with your diagnosis, Doctor.




You're not a very good doctor, Dr Turner.



I thought people were more important.


That's sweet.









Is he as good as the flower in your previous wife's room the night she died?


At first, all I thought about was how beautiful it was.



I think the night you invited me out for dinner, you had a good idea having a doctor at your hand.
Really, you're lucky I wasn't such a good doctor at the time?




Miranda... you'd better come with us.


















I don't need you anymore.






























































But Pearl herself was a beautiful flower that blooms early to die early.




















I didn't mean anything wrong.


Now go home, darling.














Yes, Laura Belle is my second cousin. But she was something big to me.
















You've always been a good kid.
Some miracle... you're good, decent, strong.




My dear, we don't have much time.
































Good morning.


















Okay, just one.











Don't get me wrong, she's very beautiful.










It'll be better tomorrow.








Is your brother as nice as you are?





Strong and happy.


The sweetest girl who's ever walked on this land.
Pearl, darling.
I'm so glad you came to see us.





But let's go, darling.


- Yeah, he's so sweet.













Is this the last fashion of your aristocratic cousins?


I'll take you to your room, darling.

You don't have to pay attention to the senator, he didn't mean anything wrong.




Lewton, darling.





Come on, Pearl, you and Lewton will have plenty of time later to get to know each other better.














I'm so glad your father sent you here.
All you have to do is act like a lady.
What else could Scott Chávez's daughter be? I'm a good girl, madam.


I think Jessie's a lot better.









He's so good.



I'll be good, I promise.















You know the last time I went to Abilin?

I was driving all day, and I was really tired, and I needed a little rest.





Sometimes you can afford extra money. What do you need money for?












Okay, Minnie, go.
Good night, sir. Minnie.






It's okay, don't forget your beautiful head.



I think that knowledge alone didn't make her happier.







I think you'd better go to bed. Like a good girl.

Okay.
Good night, Pearl.
Good night, Jesse.
Good night.
What do you want?



Small


Oh, yes, I forgot to say good night, ma'am.




Maybe you should make a list, Vashti.
















Okay, I'll tell him.
What do you want?


Good boy.














What do you think of my new girlfriend, Dice?








I'd show you, but I need to finish the job.













































The little ranch next to the railroad has too many of them to count.
Little ranch?



I almost encouraged Ken's new head of jury to rent this place out.











First of all, the railroad is new people, school.








It's okay. But it doesn't matter.



Good night, sir.









Yeah, he's the best serenade performer on this side.
I don't care about that, about him and his old guitar, just because he gave me a horse.








And Lewt will provide a beautiful musical escort.

You're the best cowboy here.


Take her to the pasture. Okay.















Oh, I'm sorry, honey, I can't hear you say that.











Little tiger.








Pearl, honey, we were so worried.
























































She just needs a little tip.
She needs guidance, and she's gonna get it, or I'm not a preacher! Sit down, girl.

What do you want to be? A good girl.



You have to fight! You must please yourself with prayer.


It's very important.










But first I stole from him, and he's going to go to the pearl gates of paradise, as beautiful as the truth that lives inside him. Put this on, girl.







Lord, have mercy on all your young and old slaves, who listen to you.

















































I've heard a lot about you, Senator. It's nice to meet you.

Tell your hired crooks to collect their tools quickly, so you know it'll make you feel better.
















- Are you ready to kill unarmed people?





Better to be on the side of the victims than the murderers.



Jesse, I'm warning you one last time.






















It doesn't matter...





It's not that bad.


If this works out well, I'll even take you to New Orleans.






You'd better go to him.




Why are you scared, sweetheart?






















This is the first time you've ever been interested in ethics.














You needed help.

I needed your help.









If you need me, I'll come back. I could use a senator.










All right, Jesse!











I have a beautiful leather hat for you!





























Okay, I'll show you!
Don't try, you can get to Ken!




















He said it would keep me clean like the first dew.
Who needs this dew?
I don't need it.


















I want to show my people the good times.
Right, Lewt? I bet!



Pearl, honey, I've been looking everywhere for you.



You're the most beautiful girl at the party.


Come on, darling.


- I'm happy to be here, Mr. McCanless.
- Very, very happy.









- You're too good for her.






Of course, but is that all you need?













Yeah. He's a big man now!
He's outdone some small cases in court! Very big.



If he's going to be engaged, there's no better purpose for him.





Okay!









It was so good, and you're talking about yours again!













Okay.





I'm a new man in these parts.


























I want you to meet little Lewt. The longest stud on this side of the state!

A lot cuter than the big Lewt!








When I was a kid, I read...






These are the best poems I've ever heard!
I'm glad you liked it.






It doesn't matter. There are still a lot of women who are willing to marry you.















I'll kill the first person to say that.

Doesn't it matter?







Please, sweetheart, think about it. Please, honey.









It's okay, I get it, all I need is a hint.



Sid, how important you are.

Good since you left, Mr. Mac Kenles.

I'll be inside, darling.











She's marrying Sam Pierce. Pearl must be very happy with Sam.




Honey, I was thinking, why don't we do a bypass line right to your dad's house?

You're not even listening to me, darling.



















The ring came by last post.
Beautiful.
I'll get married in the morning. You're so lucky.



















Sam was killed shortly before the most important day of his life, before he tasted the sweetness of love.
















You've been yelling at me for the last time, you've made one of your sons hate you and the other become a murderer.

It's money, you better get away until the situation clears up.



- Doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I'm sorry I'm causing you so much trouble.





Take care, son. Okay, Dad.






Pearl, darling.








Sam Pierce was a good man, and you're a bastard.


- You're my girlfriend, darling.








Even when it's okay, I think about you, and nothing can be more beautiful.











I'd be happy to let myself have such a tasty meal more often.





If it's all about Lewt, well, I'm glad.



I'm afraid Mrs. McCanless is feeling unimportant.









I'm afraid that's the last thing I'd know about it.































You're not gonna like it there, honey.

And I'm gonna help you. I can cook. And shooting is as good as you.






I have to go. There's something I need to tell you.










Lie, honey, please... please...







Since last night, you've been here for the first time.

I didn't have the guts to discuss this with you before, and now it doesn't matter.




And all because you didn't want to be the owner of the biggest ranch in Texas.


































I've heard rumors that you're a big shot right now. Along with the traitors of thieves.













You were a good friend, I won't forget that.



























No matter what he thinks, I won't let you stay here.












I hope it doesn't matter now.



























If only I could be good again! Look at me, Pearl.









You'll learn to dance waltz, talk, wear beautiful dresses.

















She's not in the best position to go anywhere right now.
He said if she didn't come back, he'd come here tomorrow morning and pick her up.


Thank you, I'm happy to try.




I'll give you one last chance.


Let's not make beautiful speeches, throw words.













I came because maybe you need a friend?



















I'm just a lonely old man who needs a friend like you said.















I'm glad you're engaged to Jesse.







I have some good news for you, Pearl.








Okay, I'll do it.

You have a good horse to ride for a couple of days.





I'll be right down, honey.









I can't shoot anymore, honey.



All right, come on, come on.
























Don't cry, honey, don't cry.




It was my first night in Argentina, and I didn't know the local population.
But I knew American sailors and I knew I needed to move my legs quickly.







































Would you like a good perfume, a worthy nobleman?





































A little man with a sharp friend.


You fooled me yesterday. I thought you were a big man.



























You have no idea how faithful and reliable I can be, for a good salary.


























My other friend is willing to kill for me.
That's what friends are for.

















Thank you. It's a good thing he's back, isn't it, Pat?



































What do you have to say to your wife?


















Okay, Mrs. Mundson.














- Quickly. You know, Johnny, if there's anything I need...

























That's what you're gonna have to teach me, Ballin, good manners.




















































When I went after you, I had to leave Gilda alone, and she was too beautiful to sit alone.










And since you're so cute, I'm gonna show you something.

Isn't that nice?

Of course, lovely. Beautiful. Yeah, Johnny?



















































A young man himself would be happy, but he can't afford it.












I'm a big fan of all the rules.


















































He can be so sweet and caring.






















You'll have a maid in the morning.
Old and ugly.

I think it's good to be surrounded by ugly women and handsome men.














A beautiful, greedy child.
It gives me pleasure to feed you beautiful trinkets because you eat with a lovely appetite.



















Who's lucky in cards isn't lucky in love. It's a good thing I'm not like that, is it?
















You're very nice.






Yeah, that means we need a drink together. Nope.












Not good.






We don't need Mr. Bendolin's case.




























































It's a bad tone to make a scene in public, and you can find revenge and quieter.























Big business.





Oh, come on, the world is big.











Some weird things are important to them. Really?














You're not only handsome, you're smart. Come on.













































Good morning.


































Johnny, I wish I hadn't...









I hate you so much that I'm willing to kill myself just to drag you behind me.



Speaking of which, I know why you're here at 5:00 in the morning.





















- That one, very expensive.













We need to change for breakfast.
By the way, I must say, Johnny's a great swimmer.
He beat me today, but one day I'm gonna demand a rematch.






































































Carnival is the last three days in front of the great post. In the Roman Catholic calendar, they are given to feasts and fun.


















You're too excited, my dear.








Yeah, before I go, I want to see what you look like in a new suit.














It's so good.











There's gonna be trouble here. She'd better leave before the masks are torn off.
I'll see you at midnight. It all looks like a bad melodramatic.






Are you kidding me? What do you want?

I hope the news is good.


























You know, there's an old rule, or you play the whole horse or you pass.






Okay, Ballin.












Good night, Johnny.

I knew that at the casino, Ballin was fighting for his life, and this little...
















Darling,..








- Is the hydroplane ready?







































We went back to where we started, didn't we, darling?













Great. There's a job for you. New......................................................















Three years ago, when Argentina was ready to declare war on us, we made a deal with Mandson.

That's a great idea, casino is a great cover.



















I don't see you much lately.




















And I'm happy about that. That's it!

















She didn't find him, so she decided to pick up the first person she met. It wasn't hard for a girl like Gilda.














- I don't need that. - What?

You don't have to?



Someday you'll want to go home, darling.








I'm a very good lawyer.










I was told it was a good hotel.









I don't need anyone...








I don't want anything from you. Please, just let me...
It's a nice move to bring you here.











We need the shareholders' names.
















And you should be happy, Johnny!



He'll give us the information we need.
All we need from you are patents and signatures.
Let me explain to you why we so need the shareholders' names, Mr. Farrell, to convict them for violating antitrust laws.







All right, Mr. Farrell, you're under arrest for running a gambling house.









There's everything you need and nothing I need.
Yes. What you need at the casino is waiting.


















A mixture of the best tobacco in the world's most romantic countries.


And all the bad things in life end in loneliness, little girl.






















I thought it would be nice if one of my friends killed the other.





And a big fan of love stories.


























My dear Ganya, the chance they give you won't appear twice.


Nastasia is beautiful enough to earn your choice.
Alas, too well known who lived with her... and what luxury!

Don't take so many tricks, please.








See, my dear Ganya, we're not hiding anything from you.









Dear Ganya, say yes or no.



Thank you, dear friend, for your mediation.















That's a nice name.









I don't know anyone here, and the first thing that came to my mind...
Very nice.
















Good luck, isn't it?














My dear, I doubt very much that my wife will have time to receive you; she is preparing to leave for the village.















Don't you need volunteers?



Do you have a good handwriting?









Is his wife as nice as she is?








He seemed very calm to me.






Oh, darling, he doesn't look representative.


My dear, in the presence of the children, I've already asked you to...








My dear, I have decided to relieve you of your trouble and put it at Gani's.





Prince, Mom would love to see you.










I see you for the first time, and I guess you're happy.






Often, when children see a stranger for the first time, they make a scream that scares adults; they don't know how to reason, but they feel right.








I want to congratulate you first.




Besides, Ganya's a good son.



















Sophia, I present to you Prince Moshkin, the new guest.


































I'm very pleased to help my old friend's son.


Fine; I was just about to tell you.











































































It's stupid! I can't stand you for the last two months!











Sweet Ganya, what's the point of a broken dog?









All the better; now you can smile.






This is our new guest, Prince Myshkin.



This morning... I saw your picture...

























Allow me to pay my respects and compliments to my father, who is pleased that he will soon have another daughter, whom he will care for and cherish.
You're cute.


Look how beautiful and elegant she is.
















I can see right through her: she's happy that everything in our house is ugly and funny.































- I need to tell you something.























My dear, for eight years we have lived together, ah, please, our dear, I have seen what you eat, drink, sleep, snore, but what you think is never; I swear.







And you, dear Ganochka?






Beautiful.











That's a good answer.















Dear Totsky, did you name your last price?


Beautiful skin, Ganya.



















But I'm still beautiful!





















There's something else I need to do.






















They're ours, my dear.

You're the first man I've met.










Ah, very good.





Beautiful.














I needed you, you.

















































Dear friends, forgive the Prince.



They talked about big reforms, solidarity that would give everyone an equal chance to be happy.








































































Then I had to bring him here and sell him.
It takes a lot of effort.














Are the rocks too small?












I'm a salesman, okay, and you're much better than me.























All those little things and your dad and the dogs you need to cut.






Very good.


I got it the day before yesterday; I reread it at least a hundred times.







But this morning is so beautiful, I wanted to know if you were happy.

What do you guess under the big blue sky?










He has beautiful eyes.
Agreed, and a little foot.
























I did this big show just to irritate Rogozhin and get the best out of him. Do you understand now?

Oh, Prince, you have to be able to take risks to get what you want, to play a fucked-up, indifferent woman.








However, you should know what such a small rock is worth, and this lorry is filled with them.



- You know very well that I've solved you since the first second.






















He told you the words, didn't he? Beautiful words...









You make me happy, I love you.









And you think a flour dealer is gonna be so stupid that he can't understand that it's even worse than if you wanted to sleep with her!
But it's better for you, believe me.







Even my best friend wouldn't tell me all this.
















It was the first night of my return to Russia.





The baby just smiled at her the first time.























You're my brother, but you better not ask me too many questions; go away.










It is a great pleasure for me to do you a useful service.





It was a great honour for us to welcome you.























I look like a very beautiful woman.

My dear Aglaia, when I'm with you...




















Oh, it doesn't matter anymore.













And what happened to you under the big blue sky?

In the morning, very early, the park is deserted.


Tomorrow, early in the morning, I'll be waiting for you there.
I'm not stupid in a gun shooting, and after dinner, I'll be even better.





































I walk carefully on a familiar land... I will no longer be on the way!


And you don't think it's best to get dressed and come back in a nice way?





I'm making a big effort to explain it to you for the last time.





If you want us to get married... I'm not asking for any more.

















C'est son pouwoir In his power to put us between the best and the worst,











- No, I just need to do something, say something.












An act that indicates a good fit.

I went out to meet him, ready for us to get along when he literally said to me:







"Dear Prince, I too."




Excuse them, my dear.



This is one important case that concerns you directly.




Dear Totsky, this is about your interests.








A little wine, dear friend.

















You're beautiful.



I'd be happy if my experience were useful to you.


I haven't said my last word yet.
No one ever listens to the pathetic last word of a gentle lady.

- By making no one want a scandal?
No one would want him if I was screaming at the world about the pain this man caused me, nobody would care about that.

But a short, small phrase would mean that even the best friends would turn their backs on him, and your parents would think very carefully before giving up their daughter for him.





























I felt it for the first time in my life.






Prince, not just being a girl with a good upbringing.
















Prince, it's because of me... you need to take me to her first.


I just need to say two words to her.












Yeah, you thought you did me a big favor last night, but you didn't.

That's not true; I'd be happy without you.










And I would have found better than this one.
I have found the best, imagine, Prince.














My dear lady, I thought you were smarter.






















I'll be here as long as it takes.










Trying on my dress, I saw a little girl walking into church on Easter Eve in the mirror.



Look how well I feel, how calm I am.



















I'd like to have a house in Crimea, on the shore of the Black Sea, a little house with a big terrace.






















































I think we need to get someone on the ground.















One man down there needs help.


Worse.














If you want to help a man, you need to know something about him, don't you?





















































She came first.
































Mr. Gower, do you need anything?






All right, sir.









- I need to talk to Dad.









And that's a lot worse.
I need another month.

















You're the biggest man in town.

Okay, son.














You lazy little...








I know how bad you are.
















I need a big suitcase.














Big, you know?
I don't need a suitcase for one night.
I need a suitcase for a thousand and one night to put labels from Italy, Baghdad, Samarkanda.
Big, big suitcase.














My old master.














You're gonna send us a nice postcard, okay?












Beautiful dress.

















Okay, Mom.











My last dinner is home.

I need to get the plates.


We only need a dozen two.
No, Harry, you can't, these are my best porcelain plates.




















You can't think of a better death.
So many beautiful girls.







Even worse.





















Couldn't spend the rest of my life sitting in a shitty little office.



I want to do something really important.
George, I think by doing a small thing, we're doing something very important, we're providing one of the most important needs of the human being.

We're helping people make that wish happen, sitting in our little shitty office.


I've been putting down every cent, like the last brute, to...




























Harry, I need you.





We need talented players, not wrecks like him.

George, it's good to see you.




There are so many beautiful girls here.






Sam, Harry, it's good to see you.























You look at me like it's the first time you've seen me.








The best couple will choose our jury.




























If it weren't for me, I'd say you're the most beautiful girl in town.























































Okay.






You'd better kiss her than bore your chatter.

Ah, youth, unfortunately, isn't given to someone who needs it.























































Okay.





Peter Bailey was a bad businessman.





















But no one has the right to speak ill of him as a man.



What's wrong with that?




Do you know how long it takes a simple working man to save $5,000?













Our city needs this pathetic company, just so people can come here instead of crawling over for Potter.
























They've only made one condition, and that's their best decision, they've appointed George as the responsible secretary.




This is my last chance.
Uncle Billy, that's who you want.


















Professor Fita Beta Kappa, Bailey is America's best football player.


Brother, it's good to see you.









































Is this a good place? Very.
The wages are small, but there are great prospects for the future.




I'm so happy right now that I could spit in the face of that Potter.














It's okay.
It's okay.
The most beautiful flower growing...




Looks like she knows what Harry needs.



- She's a good girl.












All means are good in love and war.








Good night, Mrs. Bailey.









































- Okay, darling.

Okay, but just for one minute.










































What does he want?

What do you want?














- Good night.
- Good night!












It's good to hear your voice again.
That's so sweet of you.








Dumbass, he doesn't want George.







I don't want her.




















Remember that old factory?










I want you to put everything, up to the last cent, in our business.

It's the biggest invention since radio.






I don't need any plastic, no chance...








Darling, my love!




Annie, now you and I are just two old ladies.















The best hotels, the best champagne... the most picky caviar, the most incendiary music... and the most charming spouse.

What then, darling?






























I gave all the cash up to the last cent.









Great, I'm glad to hear that.






I just offered the banks my guarantees. They'll get the money they need.











Listen. It's not as bad as it looks.






We don't need Potter here.

But you think too badly of us.




















Half is better than nothing.


























- I have to pay the doctor.
- I need cash!
How much do you need? Hey!


Well, Tom, how much do you need? $242.








How long do you need for this?



Mrs. Thompson, how much do you need?




You don't have to sign anywhere.



















They better be rabbits.












I don't need Mrs. Bailey.
I need my wife.




Hey. Listen, darling.











We need beautiful species, romantic landscapes. That's where George wanted to go.





















With all my heart, darling.




You're beautiful.

With all my heart, darling.














Ready?




Who needs it?

















Dozens of beautiful houses, and 90% of them belong to these bastards who used to pay you.
And your houses are no longer needed. These guys are just laughing at us.


Every house is worth twice what Bailey Bildin can afford.

















Have a good rest!










I'm an old man, a lot of people hate me, but I don't feel sorry for them either, which means we're even.
















Of which, given that you're supposed to help your mother, pay the bills, you have $10 left, at best.













You're not gonna give up living in the best house in town, buying your wife nice clothes, going to New York on business twice a year, and sometimes traveling around Europe.



























You're not gonna give up living in the best house in town, buying your wife nice clothes, going to New York on business twice a year, and sometimes traveling around Europe.














To avoid being an old maid.















Every day, she worked hard to create comfort in Granville's old house.
























The day before Christmas. Bedford Falls is around 10:00 a.m.








































Good morning.



- We have great joy.



















Merry Christmas, Mr Potter!
Good morning, Mr Potter.











Good morning, Mr. Bailey.
Good morning.



























Yeah, Harry. It's okay.






You need a temper to get out of your hometown.





They also have to pay for food and rent.




I'm glad I know you, George Bailey.


Merry Christmas, Vi.
Merry Christmas, George.































Where's the money, you old fool?




- Hello, darling.













You're a big boy now.














I don't need any guests.





The Browns bought a new car.







Go upstairs and ask Zuza if she needs anything.
















It's not good.
And that's what you call a happy family?
Why do we need these kids?












































Maybe my kids aren't the best dressed, maybe they don't have any good clothes...
































Do you need anything else?














I'm in trouble, Mr Potter. I need help.


I need $8,000 right now.







I'm willing to pay any interest. If Bailey Bildin is still interested in you...








I don't need publicity.







































You don't get lost in a small town like this.


Ah, merry Christmas!
It's a good thing you're here!




Dear Father, I can't pray, but if you are, if you can hear me,

















You hit my best friend!







It's the last time he comes here.




























I didn't have time to buy beautiful underwear.



You have to read Mark Twain's new book.






















































I don't need anything but one.


Heaven doesn't need money.




It's better if I die.




It'd be better for everyone...


































I need a drink.


























It's one of the oldest trees in Portsville.













Martini is an old friend of mine.


















Glintwayn, more cinnamon and less clove.

We don't need to show off here.














I jumped into the water to save you. I need wings.


































































Have a nice day.


















I've got a lot of connections in town!







Go your way.
















My wife ran away and took the baby with her. I've never seen you before in my life.





























It's gonna be okay.













I need a drink.





What do you want?













- When was the last time you saw him?









Martini's the last person I talked to.






















- Where is she? She's still an old maid.














I need you, Mary!


















































How happy I am!







Merry Christmas, George!



Hey! Merry Christmas, Mr Potter!
And you have a happy new year... in prison.








I bet it's a warrant for my arrest.




It's my wonderful old house, where there are walkaways.














Okay!





George, darling, where are you...


































Merry Christmas!

















"Mr. Gower wrote that you needed money. Point."


"Hi-ho. And merry Christmas.



















Let's forget the old days, let's never remember them again.
Let's forget the old days.







To the good old days,
To the good old days.


To the good old days.












Definitely as good.












- You don't have a feeling of beauty.



"Only in harmony can a woman become beautiful... caring for both the body and the spirit..."












































































It's expensive! - What are you doing?











































































You don't seem very happy for me.

Such an old and so cute friend?







We need to sit down for a couple of days.






All you need is here.
Keep an eye on it, in that case.
















I don't need a lupus. I already know where it came from.





































You could've given me a wooden one, and it would have cost me the same.



I feel better when you're around.


















- Come on, honey.
















I don't need any investigation.









































That's not necessary. They should already have all the information.












First time you see my silver?


I know good places.



















He gave you a good example, and I give you food to eat.






That's good.












































Do you think the old guys trembling about the counter need powder?




































Big event, nothing to say, get rid of the asshole.









































Go to bed.







Silk seller. This is my first client.





































We don't need any shoes right now.


I need a room, madam.









Good night.
- Good night.








When the heavens hear, life is beautiful.





Nice to meet you.

























You're very good as you are.





















Good morning, madam.






He's got a 9:00 a.m. train, you know how early I had to get!







You'd better take them off.
























There you are. Your coffee's ready.

















Not these, less.











Okay.


Okay.





















































He owes me his first term.











Can I have a long time for this?













Ten for the little ones, 20 for the big ones!





Then I'll take the big one, we'll settle it later.

What happened to the first race?

The first race is safe.























































Nice gun.


Hide, sweetheart.















































It's nice of you to come visit.





















- It's a good thing.












But, Giselle, I'm ready to listen to you, don't go so fast...







You're too good.
























I was wrong, but I'm ready...



You're even worse than he is.












It doesn't matter now...






























Good morning, Giselle. How did you sleep?
















What could be worse than knowing the future?






Oh, a new complication.

















You have a new companion.






Okay.













- It's getting worse.








You want information? - Yes. - That's why you pulled me out?





























































What the hell do you know, you little creep?





Look at her-- little, jealous, mean...



























































You'll see how good the world is!






































































But it's important.









Sorry to bother you, but Giselle left this morning and asked me to tell you...





Change the record better.



















The worst case is the bus. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.



The bill's ready.


On the one hand, the desire for a peaceful life. The other one, it's because of you.







- Oh, Mom, you should know me better!


























Good to see you, Victor!









































Good night.



Good night.


- Okay.


























- That's a good idea.
I'm glad.

Tomorrow morning, you'd already have a lawyer.






























This is bad for you.





You need help.




































You can't want more than that.





































Isn't that a happy ending?






























That's the last one, so I ordered a dozen more.








- Good morning, Mr. Everett.
- Good morning, Anna.
Mrs. Drummond is ready to see me?





Okay, thanks.




"In recent years, he has been a permanent member of Indian Hill Hunt Club, where he has also shown remarkable sports results."
Good morning, Anna.





Good morning, Mrs. Drummond.
Good morning, Anna.





Okay, Mrs. Drummond.










Okay, Mrs. Drummond.




















I'm not a little girl.


Paul left his business in good shape, given that he's been sick for so long.

















"My dear Jess, it's weird to write you this letter when you read it, I won't be with you anymore.









Okay, you want to race?


I won. I'm first, I'm first, I'm first.

- Good morning, Uncle Frank.







I had some business to solve.




































I'd be happy to come if you want.














- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mrs. Kimball.






Good morning, Mrs. Thomson.
Good morning, my dear.




















Come on, darling.

You better get back to bed.















We need money, Mom.























You need to decide which one of your summer costumes you're gonna repaint.






























Please, let's not talk about this again.

















Okay, a pound of both.




















Have you heard the latest gossip?




Come here, darling, and I'll tell you.
















You have a second to talk to an old friend.



Let's go out and have a drink like the old days.
















It's a good thing you haven't made peas yet.








She's so cute.










She's impossible how cute and stays here for a month.







































On the contrary, I'm glad we're going back to the old school.





Good night.
- Good night, Mom.
- Good night.


















Okay.








For two little boys.
Okay, lady.







- There's nothing nice about catching my own daughter on the J-D platform every time I want to tell her something important.









I don't think it's better for Frank to find anyone.



















































You need a man to revive your meeting.







If you don't accept the word of honor of an old family friend, what do words mean?

Anything better than on the train... even with George.











Come on, you're a big girl.




































Oh, Jeanne, I've never felt so bad in my life.













All right, go south with your mom.




I may have said hard words, but it's from great love.


- Okay, I'll go.


















- Okay.






It was the first lesson.

















































- Nice to meet you.








- So you've been here for the last 10 years...
- I didn't say the last 10 years.































- Good night.
- Good night.


That's good.

- See you in the morning, good night.
- Good night.






I have a great responsibility - sons, 12 and 14 years old.

























Good night, Jessica.
Good night, Major Landis.








She's gonna need someone.





Now listen, honey, stop thinking about them.



Good night, sweetheart.
Good night.


















We were so good together.







You admit that we had a good time and we spent some wonderful days together.



You'd better go.







Okay, if that's what you want.







They're so sweet.
- And you're very nice, too.



I'm really glad you came.

You're so sweetly fussing around me.
Oh, it's so good to see you.





You're so cute, Frank.






















They're okay.




- Okay.




























I'm meeting an ex-girlfriend and her new husband here.

On the contrary, I have a good relationship with the husbands of my ex-girlfriends.




Well, thank you, it was good to see you again.





No, thanks, and I don't need a new cookbook either.








I'm sure it's nothing important.


































How are you, my dear?












How nice to meet you.





















Has anyone ever told you that you have a very beautiful smile?












































-... old-fashioned.

Nice hat.
















































Provide the old gossipers with new material for chatting.































Better than me.













- Okay.








- Nice to meet you, Major Landis, come in.
























Good to see you.




- It's a pleasure to meet you... determinedly.

















Okay, Kif.




- Just like old times.













- Thank you very much.











- Doesn't matter.


















































I'm glad to hear it, madam.





I see you're shoes of the devil. Good night...
Good night.





Good night, Jess.
Goodbye and thank you for the lovely gifts.




Maybe you don't know yet, darling, but after the first snowstorm, you're gonna carry me in your arms.




- Good night, Mom.
Good night.
- Good night, boys.


Don't you dare wake me up before 7:00 in the morning.






Good night.








She seemed like a beautiful museum exhibit to me.





















Jessica Frank Everett is who you want.















I thought it would be better if I gave it to you when we were alone.






Good night, Jessica.
Good night.

















This is my first big New Year's party.


























Your mom always came to see us on New Year's Eve.


If that's what you think, I'm glad we're leaving.




















You'll be home from Chicago at 4:00 A.M.































- Good night.
- Good night, guys.





- Happy New Year, Johnson.



Good evening, children. Happy New Year.
Mrs. Drummond, I'm so glad you came.




That's so sweet of you.







All my old friends.















New Year's isn't a New Year without the Drummonds.








Happy New Year.














By the right of an old friend who's hurting to watch you do stupid things.







You're outraged by my desire to start a new life.






And I won't embarrass you in front of your handsome friend.






And no matter what the price of these changes is, I'm gonna do what I think is right.




Good night, Riet, and the happiest New Year.
- Good night.





Let's go meet New Year's under the Krunts.




They say, "Who will you meet New Year's Eve with and spend it with?"













I want us to have one last drink on this New Year's Eve and have a drink together.










When she comes in, let's scream "Happy New Year!"
















Not in the big one.





This is our last night.

It's 7:00 this morning.


You felt so good tonight.








And I don't care how much more time we have.

Oh, honey. I knew I'd lose you one day.









Don't you understand, darling?
I'm happy in my love for you.
You better not know me.

All I want to hear is that you need me in New York while I can be there.
You know I need more than anything in the whole world.







Okay.






























Now, go to the kids, my dear.


























You know how sick Dad's been for the last two years.






You see, all I wanted to remember was the good times when we were all together.







Don't say "did," honey.



When a person falls in love for the first time, it's always so exciting and wonderful.









I want you to be happy.






- I'm glad.


Oh, my dear, I didn't do anything.









Now go home and rest, my dear.
- Good night.
- Good night.


Oh, honey, I can't go to New York with you.









- I have nothing to forgive, darling.









And, honey, when I get back, and now I'm sure I'll be back if you wait for me?



- I'll wait, no matter how long.

- Goodbye, darling.




For the first time, I saw light through the bars of the prison bars in a small town 50 miles from Paris.





She stole 11 grand, served 11 terms, and gave birth to 11 children. Then, unfortunately, she had to steal the 12th, serve a new term, and produce my humble person.
After the poor mom went to a different world, leaving me in this world, what could be more natural than going back to those happy places where my baby went?
So, after many years, I'm once again in the midst of lovely hearts of walls and smells, celebrating my birthday at home.












My father doesn't know I'm here, but a nice old lady walked from Paris to bring this cake...



Such a good woman...

She doesn't know... she's spent the best years in her...












I bet she stole it from the best confectionery in Paris...
Oh, my aunt only goes to the best stores and goes...
As my Uncle Hugo says, it's always cheaper to steal in the most expensive places.







We need to thank her when we get to Paris.



Emile was the worst man-- the burned optimist.

























What a horse... even better than your saint.


























It was only this morning that we had a nice meeting with your colleague...
My dear Monsieur... my dear nephew.

We decided that you should leave Paris the same night.













All night, our dear Gabrielle has been working on a printing machine in the basement to make them for you, Monsieur, and for you, my dear nephew.





- Your new name!



You should have seen my last banknotes...



Emile and I were still looking for this lovely uniform.



























♪ And there's no better means ♪




How lovely of you, monsieur!


I need love...






- Yeah, but right now I need to be at Tortoni's.


















Isn't that right, beautiful rubies?
I was talking about your beautiful leg.





Oh, "Tortoni"... I have to hurry...



Honey, I've been waiting for you for half of...


























Yeah... no, he was old, bald and not attractive at all!










My lovely snake, this time we'll go the other way.
























































And he's handsome... much prettier than the other saints.

- Mimi! They don't look at the holy ones because they're beautiful, but because the holy ones!








Did you forget about our little secret? We're gonna go...
Oh, good morning, Father!
Good morning, Mimi.
Good morning, Theresa.



































































It's so good to see you. It's so good to see you.




























We need to find out where the old woman sleeps and where she keeps the jewels.

I'll check... and if the old woman doesn't sleep well...
My dear Emile, I hope you're not suggesting murder.




















That's very nice of you.

































The old marquis lock the doors at ten...





It'd be nice to lock him up.








Don't worry, my little one, it's a storm, it's no big deal...




























A beautiful rose for a beautiful flower from my flock.











































You can't judge a man's life until his last hour.

If a man has a beautiful face, how can his heart be black?





What a morning!




My dear Emile... we've always had enough patience to endure other people's torment.













- Teresa, where have you been all morning?









- I almost lost my feelings! But Grandma says I'm too young for that.









She's young and beautiful, and I'm not rich...

Of course, he needed a scapegoat, and since I didn't find a missing person...








My wife gave it to me for the second anniversary of the wedding... she's so young, so beautiful...













Sweet girl... the one who's an adult.

















- The minister will find a new cat.

















But the priest said we have to believe.



My dear Emile, try to take a closer look at the edge of the knife.








Yes, but we can attract your dear family.





Okay, it's a deal.



Monsieur, it was a pleasure to meet you.




It is not only theirs that must be returned, but also the honour of my profession!











Of course... it's a beautiful observation!










Here's our first piece of evidence.



Elementaryly, my dear Rudolph.
A man of less weight couldn't break this old, strong branch...
Next, the distance from the ground to the first broken branch indicates that we are growing...


- Good morning, Miss Theresa!

Good morning, monsieur!









- With his weight, if he walked the gravel, he'd be as fat as a horse.




What a lucky new piece of evidence.













I think this evidence will be enough for your new chief of police.



I need a practice, a business man, like you!


- Well... - My sweet boy!
You need to dedicate yourself to the service of the good and the community!






















Yeah, I'm so happy, Grandma...
So happy!
It's a good advice to put your jewels in a bank.




Sweet mother, I made him my chief of police.

He's the one you want!





- Vidok, the new chief of police.
Come on, sweetheart, come on...
















The new chief of police.








- Our new cashier...

It's really good to see you.


It wasn't until this morning that he found five!


His Excellency and I have decided that it would be wise to put our best detectives in the bank. Beautiful!







She cleaned the castle so much this morning, it shined more than the sun!
- Good morning, Miss Ernestine.































In the meantime, I'm gonna tell Loretta's story, a beautiful shadow on a screen lit by a candle.









Still, my dear, you're married to a detective...



This little armband can give me back everything: the post of chief of police, my brilliant career.






According to you, he was old, bald and ugly. Exactly!










It all happened the next morning, in front of a small store...


My new hat!
My beautiful hat!




And you were worse than I thought!

Don't call them until I've bought you a new hat.
A new... hat?






- She's yours. - Ah, isn't it beautiful?














And your bills for the last three months... 420 francs, monsieur.






It's like old times.
- Except I'm married. - I'm so happy.




















To catch someone who's committed a whole series of crimes in the last two years!


I need friendship, Lieutenant.


I had so many names, I'm afraid I forgot the last one.

Sweet lady, after going to the store, my wallet is completely empty.




How cold it is to say goodbye to old loved ones...
Last time we broke up, you gave me a lot more...







Did you buy a new hat? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
Only hats give me pleasure! - Isn't she beautiful?






You don't understand, it's for the detective's job!


- I remember, darling!

















My beautiful hat! ..





I've been kicked out, but I'm a hundred times better than this Mr. Video!























Yeah, yeah, tomorrow, everything's ready!













I forgot: I bought myself a new hat!

- The last one shared fate first.




Honey, you speak in riddles.















Good morning, monsieur!




Your voice is as beautiful as you, Mademoiselle Teresa.



I've got some important things to do.





Monsieur, I entrust you with my greatest treasure.







All set?









The barrels, are the cart ready?
Dear nephew, you know the driver is my beloved.

- All set?






I've been dreaming about riding a big goldfish all week. Or is it better on the pecanes?











But your father needs you, monsieur! More than ever!
























Oh, I'd love to!
















Sweetheart Theresa, you're gonna have to give up your dreams. But why?
Alas, the shadow of the past appeared to me in the shape of a beautiful lady... do you love her?








If you can't be good, I'll be bad!
I'll make a better assistant than your clumsy lieutenant!
















Honey, I promise you, I'll do whatever you ask.







- You little liar!





- Is that the biggest one you've got?
- Yes, and the most expensive, madam!









Teresa, you're beautiful.
As beautiful as that woman?












Stop peeking!

























Good idea!







Honey, you didn't scare me, you scared those poor birds.






















She was so young and beautiful...
















- I don't need it. - You don't need it? ..















I'd rather wash floors than sit in jail!

















So I killed the last thing in me from a snake.










Luckily, my dear boy, you're as skilled in the first one as you are in the second!
















I need someone.




We need to relieve the pain. A quarter of the morphine granules every four hours, you can do more if you have to.









Very good. Only an impeccable reputation from now on, Taylor.


















Good morning.
Good morning.
What a morning. One of the most beautiful in Honolulu.






The doctor said you need to sit down for a while today.








Who knows what the first tree I've ever seen?













It's me, okay.
Good old George Taylor.

"This is my last words to you.
"That's why I write them. So I can always make sure they were the last."



























I... maybe I can do better myself.














- It's important. Yeah?
































Thank you very much, sir.
















If you need more I.D., I have to fire...





















It's very important.













- Larry Cravat hasn't come yet, darling?









Okay, maybe he forgot.































This and half a dozen other places, belong to a nice guy named Mel Phillips.








He's got a bigger leg than you.

Christy, darling, by the time you get this, I'll be Mrs. Larry Cravat...














How kind of you to offer me this.












So, what do you want?




























Glad you could make it.






















Mr. Taylor, are you ready to tell me about Larry Cravat's whereabouts?












Okay.
Okay. I'm coming.























































































Or worse, not a stranger.






It was this morning.

























Even if he's the biggest bastard in the world.
































Okay, Taylor.




































He's a good guy.










Good night, Chris.

- He's a nice guy.





I... I don't need any sheets.
It's okay. It's okay.
Then I'll see you tomorrow morning.


Okay.
































































































But can I ask you a little question?














You'd better drink it.








And a lot of money was floating freely in this country like dice players on a fireball.






























It's not bad.



Not bad at all.






That's a good reason to try.
And even a very good personal reason.









I'd like to know more about what happened at my bar last night.



























- Okay. I don't think that's how it works.


- Maybe it's best not to go alone.







The car you're driving, the new tires.




What do you want?






































































Honey, loyal, sentimental, little Phillips.





















But it's better than being honest, which I find unbearable.
I used to be a big thief and a great bastard.






































Phillips, darling.


How thoughtful of you to sleep with my dear Mr. Taylor.










I think it's someone who has a very important reason.



I was gonna get to know him a lot better, Anselmo...





Before you called me yesterday, Cravat was the name in the old phone book.

Okay.




















However, directly, Mr. Cravat and his long absence reinforced their belief that Mr. Cravat was a murderer and that it was very important to clarify the identity of another person.



I'd be happy to give the police another man who was on the dock that night.



That would be even better, anyway.






















































Confucius said, "When something smells bad, make new friends"?










That's great advice, Mel, and I appreciate it.




















Father better, thank you.
Better?




















Oh, it's very nice.



That's the story in the paper that morning. A man was killed.


He seemed happy and happy.
There was someone here, he said he'd make us rich, and I could buy a new dress.
I'm afraid it's not very beautiful.























































It's very important.
We think our rules are important too.
















I'm a very good friend of his.




































Imagine an old bastard like me.










































































































Yeah, that's good.









I'm glad he's not here.







Good night.
- Good night.













































I don't need a memory to understand that.
Murder, fast change of clothes, change of name, and then escape to a whole new war.






















- Honey, listen to me.

























And he may have changed for the better.

You made a good try, Chris, but that's not what I heard.



















Because you were close to something more important than two million dollars.

Chris, honey.
Honey, listen to me.

















- It's important.



In this case, my boy, I'll be happy to carry it myself, right now.



Thank you very much.




































Okay.










I can give you my word. - Okay.
















It's a good thing I remembered your names, Anselmo.


And because I'm an important shareholder of two million dollars.







I don't want an unjustly accused man.

I need whoever did this.

Okay...



















That you were seen on the dock the next morning, that you were nervous and upset.










I want money, too, but that's not bad.





Phillips, darling.













Stop me if I repeat myself, but you're a very nice guy, Mr. Phillips. Forget it.

















I have a good place to put so much money in the market.















The little man in the glasses took care of it, didn't he?









Little Miss Knower of the Right People.

I take it back, about good, good character.













- Does it matter?





























Okay.



Okay. Okay.























Oh, the little man with the glasses, he used to work on duty at Lambert's sanatorium. - Lambert.


You've outrun everyone. Okay.
Okay.




You must be a good detective, Cravat. - Detective?





















No, in the morning.




















But I'm not very big.
All right, jump in.


You'd better call and tell them you'll make it on your own.








All right, Beale!













Welcome to New England, Yankees.


Hey, not bad.


Thank you very much.









That was really nice of you to give me a ride.










I was very happy to help you.

Thank you very much.
Okay, see you later.














It's so good to see you.







Thank you very much.





You're gonna be happy, Kate, I've been poking around looking for beautiful topics for your drawings.
That's so sweet.















Okay.
Good morning, Martha.
Good morning, Eben.




















Okay, Martha, if that's how you decide to keep this model.






















































Okay.



Okay, and Sunday. Damn it!










Okay.





Because it's a good color.




Better get inside.





Okay.






















What do you want?















I'm glad I didn't try to get back in the fog.

























Lonely people need friends, but they're so hard to find.




















I'll bring the boat tomorrow morning.


Good night.

It's beautiful.



Most of my coworkers got a great job, high-paid.

One even offered a job with more pay.




You know, you're the first person to know that.


Come on, I haven't shown you the best place yet.

Okay.
You're the first person I brought here.









I'm going to a new job next week.

The last few days have been so interesting.







Good night, Beale.


Okay.




Good night, Beale.
Good night, Kate.
Good night.








This lighthouse keeper isn't old.
Very old.







You know, darling.




Okay.












He's a good guy, Pat.

Do you need him?














Painting in the dark, darling?




Good night.
Good night.
Good morning.










Good morning.





















































































I'll be ready.














































It was very kind of you to invite me.




























Good evening, Katie, darling.




Nice to meet you.

















Okay, Freddie.




Beautiful night.











































And I wish you the greatest happiness.








What a beautiful couple, Mrs. and Mr. Emerson.











We have the most beautiful bride of the year and of all time.






Best guardian of the year and of all time.
Thank you, Pat. But you have a better guardian now.


Honey, I'll see you in 20 minutes.




I wish you all the best.






No, Freddie, thank you so much.













Katie, darling?



It's a pleasure.






I'm a big fan of Russo.





















That's sweet.





















































And here you are, the offspring of a generation who imagined themselves to be an artist with a capital letter.








Okay.



















Bad.



I think it's good.











































































Very good, and you?












Okay, I'll see you later, Cathy.
Okay.







Beautiful.











Is this a new job?












That's a good option.
He pays good money.



Okay, madam.



That's sweet.









How nice of you to think about it. However, don't be.


No, no. Thank you very much.


Okay.






Okay.



















Okay.






















You'll be glad to know, Karnock, I've made up my mind.














Remember what I said when I first met you?





Men need women, women need men.



You need a guy who would sacrifice everything for you.







That's better.







Thank you very much.

































Okay.


How do you like your new skipper?














Beautiful.


Okay!

We'd better get back.












Big wave!





















Okay, ma'am.
















It's okay now.













She needs to get some rest.





Okay.












You're gonna be okay, Mrs. Emerson, and you're gonna be a good wife to Beale.



Okay.



I won't be long, darling.



I've been waiting all morning for an answer to my call, and I just got it.




































- I'm so sorry, my dear.


















Okay, Pat.













We were good friends.





I'm glad you're back.










It's a very unfortunate incident, but I think after you deal with Kate's cases, you'd better go to Renault and stay there.




Okay, okay!




Very good.




















































Maybe not, but I need him.
That's the first honest word in a month.

Okay.








































You don't have to unpack until morning.





Okay, madam.

Little beggar.





















Beale, it's good to see you.



Okay.


Isn't Elma the best chef in the world?






















I think it's the best way to deal with it.







Hello, darling.





























You dirty little liar.
























Even worse.



Hello, my dear.


Okay.

That's so sweet, Freddie.































And no matter what I could do, it's gonna be forever.

























I wasn't ready.


















































- I want to show you a bad well.











But you're gonna have to see the worst.







- Wow, cute kitten.









- Oh, he's in great need.



- There's a bucket full of it. It needs to be carried out.














- They're gonna make a nice couple.



The engineer's gonna tell you better.











































- I see, it's a smaller thing.





















- We have to do something.














- What happens when they find good groundwater?














Ole Hansen is digging a new well.



- Why isn't a new well built where the old one was?



























Not like water from an old well, two-thirds of the coils, and one-third of the tubes.












Maybe she'll be the most important painting of my career. A beautiful speech, Mr. Baldwin, then Charlie, then.

And from the top... for not much money, this book solves a lot of our problems... and down to the bottom.


And "It's gonna happen tomorrow," and it's gonna take us to the top, and everyone finds something in it that he or she doesn't understand in this book, but I'm sure it's a beautiful love story.




















Morning, noon and night all the time I wrote a book I know all about it:



You did a great job.










Fine, I want everyone there.





We couldn't find anything better.





















It could be a serious problem. But I was struck by the big mistake of entrusting this role to a famous actor.

It must be a brand-new face.

This search will be even more important than the search for Scarlett Ohar.


























I'm taking this out of Bremen prewar material. Could make a beautiful scarf.












Looking for something important and finding it in your backyard. That's exactly three times. We went there and didn't notice anything. Now you don't get us out of here. You talk, relax, everything's gonna be great.






















This girl's repeating herself. It's cute, I guess.

I sleep there. Everybody's very nice to each other.






- Oh, I guess I'm saying too much-- no, you're a great conversationalist, but after that blah blah, you don't want a little drink?


I need to take something out of my bag.



Dear Mr Baldwin:
After a long thought... I support your idea of a new face for Mark Winston.































I mean, a lot of girls choose a man that they care about... or give them social protection like Professor Metcalf wrote in her last book, a woman.

I see what you expect from guys only the bad... and you get what you expect.



I can make Joe feel so good that... when I ask him to relax and take me to Ritz's roof, he says,










But he says he likes someone better.







That's how a man makes a girl realize she's too good for him.


Honey, if a girl goes through this, she knows what's worth.
















It's okay.












You let your natural impulses win, and it's a big mistake. What?


It's just beginning to get back to civil life and build a better world for a healthy nation as strong as a single family. That's why you have to be more careful with girls. You need to know as much about it as possible.
She's gonna be a good friend of yours, a loyal wife, and then a mother, and don't let the fleeting impulses blind you. I didn't even think about marriage. I know, but soon you'll think about it. I want you to remember everything I told you.











It's nice to watch them. Just need an eye and an eye.

- They like fun days, and that's good.























I had to save the book from the worst fate of an army, didn't I?










































You're tired, so tired sweet pilots never get tired.







It's not gonna be easy any other way. Thank you very much. I'm... I'm sure I can handle myself. Okay, good night.
Good night. Oh, good night.
















- Good night. - Good night.











Dear Miss Madden:
























Come on in here, my car's outside. I have to do something important for the movie.


Okay, I'll wait for you in your compartment.










Thank you very much.





You need to be careful with men.
Find out if he can become a good friend, not just a loving, serious husband, but perhaps a father.



- We're so happy to see you. - Oh, thank you.




















You're kidding. I can prove the last line of reading.


"His service ended, but on this abandoned wasteland, he saw something new."
Large communities, factories and factories with infinite hopes...
















Don't smile for us, you have a nice smile, but we won't give you three liters.














All right, take my stuff to my place. Where's your stuff?












It's gonna be fine, we're all back together.

- Some habits can be good.



Right, you still took her home. It was fine until we mixed the drinks. Great, but the vodka after the wine she said, she felt Russian.













Yeah, I understand, but I really did have a ticket. I don't know what's always happened. If I have to, I can vouch for Miss Klotch, the conductor, and I can vouch for him, the conductor. And you, I suppose, can vouch for him?

















- we're so happy to see you.

- We thought it would be great for you. - Thank you.
- that makes me so important.
Freddie was right. He said nothing because an orchid doesn't make a woman feel important.






I have a wolf appetite, hi, darling.













Happy seven, huh?



- I have two seats-- fine, thank you. They asked me to stay with them, but I said I was nice to you.

You can see how many people around the plane, but isn't it wonderful to be part of the new world?



For too long we haven't interfered with the executive. We've gained experience. Now it's our civic duty to take responsibility.
I've read this book too. Looks like what this author wrote to impress you. But there's a lot of nonsense in the new society together, from his first scream, and a good government feeds him out of a bottle teaching him to be real ladies and gentlemen.
And not getting hit by fate looks like you're laughing. Listen to Miss Klotch. Did you hear about the first settlers?













- It's so beautiful - what's great?




















Not exactly... but we can't set Freddie up after he was so sweet that he gave us the truth to replace our Japanese medals.












- Isn't he great for that car?



























The girl's ready to leave.














- What are you gonna do if you don't die? I'm gonna stick around.











Your gyroscope better get the plane back to the hangar.





























Oh, I think the bug was a bad idea.









He's got the front page, he's got the front page, he's watching.







It's gonna be okay.








- I'm so happy I met you, and














- Yeah, with beautiful shapes... sister or girlfriend.



































Oh, yeah, that's very good for the cereal harvest. That's good for Elizabeth Arden. Why isn't anyone driving?





















But when he got to La Junta, he broke down at my door, he was a nice guy, and my wife was so welcome, we let him talk to someone from the east, and I'm from New Jersey.


She doesn't know anything about cars, transmissions, transmissions, but every time something happens to this machine, it's very expensive.



And she's pretty.





















Well, I've been offered $150 for it, but the longer I keep it, the more expensive it is with Rommel's antiques marks, can I take a look at it?












You know, it's a really good car with me driving.
Much better than a train.
- Cozy-- I think we'll stop in the next town, too. I need to make a phone call.
























We're waiting for you today, I've arranged a big party!


























Look, Mr Baldwin, she's on the front page.







Of course, Dink is a first-rate mechanic, but he needs time.


























That's nice, isn't it?
That's nice. Maybe it was even better.

If it happened under other circumstances, you kissed me because we're here on a meadow... in the sky the moon and the stars shimmer, you know, if we could get to know each other better about what we have in the middle of our tastes, our interests, our goals in life.











I think Isotte needs some water at the nearest ranch. What's wrong with you?




Imagine my head on your shoulder and your lips so brave in the sky full of the moon and the sound of old melody. I'll buy this dream. Why don't you shut up?




They're happy to see us, they want to meet us.
We've got beautiful names.


Flyers, very soon I'll be a pilot, too, my father, says, "You're too small."

That's not a bad start.







Mrs. Señorita invites you to visit our little fasinda in Mexico. We had a beautiful fasenda. Lots of rooms, wine, beautiful flowers... not exactly...

Oh, we were just about to have lunch my father would be so happy... that he's visiting American officers. He's a big patriot.
Thank you very much, but I'm afraid it's time for us to move on and I'm sure we have a little time to hang out with our good neighbors. Yes, yes, yes.



- I made it myself. - Beautiful lines. Thank you, sir.
- First-rate job. - Thank you very much.






Okay, show our guests, but only good manners... but hospitality is common to Ortega.
Gentlemen, señorita... we can only offer you modest snacks, but from the bottom of my heart, I'm happy to see you.





Dad, they're pilots, and so big and strong, maybe I'll be a U.S. pilot, too. It's not welcome... to discuss my business in the presence of guests.

You must forgive me, señorita, for my children. As you can see, they lack the mother's care. Dad's been telling me a lot of good things about mom since she died.
You don't look happy, señorita, probably because of Dolores, the way she looks at that pilot.









- It's gonna be okay.













Well, I've only written one book about a man who can't have a relationship with a woman that he loves is a very important story, but does señorita have an experience like this?
Well, my eyes are always wide open, and I've studied a lot of books. You'll forgive my remarks, but I say from high age I'd rather get my own experience first and then write a book in life so messed up and a lot more.
Maybe, but it's better to live and create your own mess than hide your head in the sand, Mr Ortega. I see you're educated. Oh, you flatter me señorita so... I seem to have the wrong idea of love.
You know, I've always thought that love... true, must be gentle and considerate. It's something lofty señorita, all the other way around. She's an animal, passionate, violent young again to obey her instincts of señorita... I see yesterday a little dancer in Guadalajara.






Señor, we don't deserve it. Don't be modest.
A tall pilot and I... we've been close for years. I knew that from the first minute you noticed?










- but I didn't do anything - last time I asked












No, he said love and violence go hand in hand then I made the last attempt, and what did you say?













Imagine my head on your shoulder and your lips are full of moons in the sky and the old melody is playing. I'll buy this dream.
Guys, they say the most beautiful bugs are here in Albuquerque from all of America's cities. I don't think you're interested. I'm interested in everything you're interested in.










- I remember where she put all we have to go back to, but all my paperwork is there. Maybe you'd like to meet that shotgun, but I'm not!



















She's ashamed of her book. It's not exactly that, but I have my reasons. You know, you're the first celebrity to stay at this hotel. There's a legend about Buffalo Bill that he was here, but he wasn't registered.

































Charter, I'm gonna be ready to be arrested in 10 minutes, huh?
It's a lovely morning, isn't it?


Excuse me, miss, but only when you're called, but it's a big mistake.














- We're gonna get on the first bus, but first I'm gonna take a bath. I feel depressed.











I left the front page for you.































I don't want to have anything to do with you. I don't need a woman teaching everyone what to do. I wouldn't take the one that says what I do alone. I need the one that needs me, the Miss Klotch who's in trouble.
And so cute, and... and, uh, forget... come on, Dink, we've got to get the Marines to the base to do this after everything we've done for you.


















Dear Keith, I don't really know how to write letters.



Rusty could have put it better, but what I can do, he still doesn't want to write to you like always, yours, Dink.

I saw her in the picture and the guy, she's a nice girl. I'd walk miles to make it different.
Dear Dink, I was surprised and happy with your letter.


Hollywood is very nice.

I'll try to get you a meeting with Dolores Moran, you have good taste.









Last night, Beautiful Keith Madden spent time in the company of a famous director who was rumored to be taking care of a star."
I must say, Keith looked great with a black purse and a feather hat. They sat at the best table in La Rue later she danced with a handsome man in military uniform.




Dear Dink, it's so good to hear from you, what do you mean by writing that I'm dating someone?












Dear Keith, I want to thank you for the wonderful time I spent in your house with breakfast in bed. I told Rusty what you were... but I still feel like he's in pain. I told you about your house.











So he's got a bright type, I'd like to get to know him better.

Oh, so that's what's good, good luck.





Maybe he's not a bad guy.
Sure, sure, he's not a bad guy.












Two eggs with ham, two coffees and toast, you know, it's my last day as a waitress.



Anything from her lately?



Oh, yeah, sure, got it this morning you want to hear it?

"Dear Dink, a lot of pretty bugs will be at the reception next weekend, but I..."

"I'm sorry, but I'm afraid we can't make a four again. I'm so sorry to hear that about Rusty.
















Yes, Captain dear Miss Madden, strike out. Dear Miss Madden, I...



















Thank you, thank you very much!




Operator? Please, do I need the phone number of the Flower Shop on Sunset Boulevard?

Firefield 8204, thank you very much.

No, no, no, white orchids. I really need a white orchid.

Yeah, Christopher Madden 1734 Kingswood Drive 1734, oh, thank you very much.
Alma, Alma, give me my new black dress and white orchid.










Everything's ready for the ball at the royal palace!





The king got up at 5 a.m., personally wiped the dust on the front stairwell.




Look, forester, I've been wanting to ask you why you've been freaking out lately. ..and look back.










They're the husband and her two daughters from the first marriage.

















































Then, like you, Cinderella, I raise from morning to evening!



- Only when everyone's gone, Mother, 'cause then no one's gonna want me.

Do you know, my dear little ones, what this bastard was doing right now?








- She's got an answer for everything.














- I'm here, darling.





- To rest from doing your homework, darling.





Yeah, but did you ask the king to record me and my little ones in the book of the first handsome kingdom?
What are you, darling?



















You could've pinned it on your ball dress, it'd be so beautiful!



My dear little ones, don't be angry, don't fight.

Are our ball dresses ready that I ordered to sew in one night?





You can, honey, you can, you can, yeah, but before you do, clean up the rooms, wash the windows, rub the floors, peel the kitchens out, fill the fields, put seven pink bushes under the windows, take out seven bags of beans, white and brown.


- Hurry up, darling.



♪ 'Cause I'm good ♪ ♪ I've been kicking my ass in the morning ♪





Godmother, dear godmother!











I'm not asking, darling, how do you live? - Did you get hurt today? - Twenty-four times!








We'd better talk about you.














Oh, thank you, dear godmother!

Thank you, dear godmother!






Oh, my dear, what a girl you are!





And I see clearly that in a gorgeous ball dress, you've remained a sweet, sweet, hardworking, kind girl.




- Let's listen to him. Good boy.


Dear Cinderella, I watch you work all day.





Thank you, dear boy. I'll never forget how good you were to me.
Now remember, my dear, remember the most important thing.

- At midnight, your new dress will turn into old and poor.




Thank you, dear godmother!

Nice to meet you.




I'm really glad you're here. - Hey.


- Your beautiful lace collar ruptured in the most visible place!















You can't imagine how happy I am to you!
I love new mystery guests.
Old friends, of course, are good, but unfortunately, you already know them by heart.













I'm so glad to see you.





And the king said to me, "It's good to see you once."




- What do you need all these tapes for?




Well, now, my dears, I'm gonna get an order to recognize you as the first beauties.






A mysterious and beautiful stranger.










Supernaturally sincere and fabulously sweet.



This girl... this girl is a beautiful flower.






First phantom is yours.


- Okay.






A good bug lived in the world, an old mutual friend.


You're my friend and I'm your friend, old loyal friend.


You're my friend and I'm your friend, old loyal friend.
Who's this cute old man who always dances without music?




- Make sure my daughters are in the book of the first beautiful kingdom, okay?

The first... Beautiful...











The magical country is great, but we won't be here long.














Sweet, kind, mysterious guest.
Sweet, kind, mysterious guest.















The wine you and I drank in the magic pot of a magic glass was fabulous!

And you're thinking about how good it would be to eat ice cream.




Dear Cinderella!



Well, he wanted the guests to dance more.





Best ice cream in the world. I chose him myself.

Thank you, my dear prince.



I've never met the best in the world.












Dear Cinderella.





























Well, okay, so be it, I'll stay.













































And more scared half to death.












Hold your thumb.

















- Well, Cinderella, well, my dear baby, my dear daughter.










Okay.


















I have to... I have to find this girl and ask her why she hurt me so much.


















- Where is she, where is she, my dear, where is she, my daughter?
- Here she is, Your Majesty, my dear son-in-law.










Uh... no. The kid's fucked up, dear son-in-law!






But you can't afford it!

And she's too young for you, young lady.






























Prince, dear prince, where are you? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,









Everyone's happy except the old forester, well, she's, you know, guilty.


And no connection can help make the foot small, the soul big and the heart fair.







'Cause I was joking, but, like a lot of jokes, it contained a fraction of the truth and the little cities that I made up the foundation of the nation, really, everybody looked like each other.
And that's why it's no big difference that we're bringing you to this town in Onnectic.

You can give the streets different names, but if you name them, I'm on the street, I'm on the street, I'm on the street, or I'm on the street, that's not gonna make a big difference.
And people, well, maybe they dress me a little differently or something, but actually, they're just like your neighbors and you, I guess, you know, you know them all: cop at the post, kid selling newspapers, shopkeepers, lawyers, good people, bad people.














- It's the old poor I ha father Lambert.
















And one morning, the black headline will stare at us.
And there's a war, and there's a rash on the stock market, or a good old man is shot on the street, and I'm quiet, and I'm suddenly gonna shake up, and I'm gonna run, and I'm gonna gain power, flow, all new, windy ways.
















Unfortunately, too few are like him... with the pastor's packaging spending most of his life here in the quiet he created, coming, sharing me a simple life with my neighbor, and inspiring my parishion with my own example of kindness and humanity.
He may have been more fortunate than many of my puppies. When he was old, the government introduced reforms that led to the expulsion of politicians and hardware and breathed a new life into urban construction.






- I will, Mrs. Arvy, as chairman, have the last word.


But his basic work was with the people in his district, especially those who needed his advice and recommended me.














This time, luckily, you didn't do much harm.






























































Well, you didn't look happy to me.



- It's not gonna make it any better if everyone's okay with me.
























































And om said they were working on a new version.
And um said they think this guy should have known Lambert's father very well.

























- I need a new leader.














- Is that you, darling?




- Anything new on the Lambert case?



















Come on, tell me more about your vacation center.





































We need help 'B' or...







Come on, we've got a good cops.
One of the best in the country.



Mac, we promised them a good government.
















Harry knows this case better than all of us.









That's very nice.





















I want to get action, okay, let the other guy get me.









































Okay, okay, I'll send the car.





And the black coat and the light I walked I was pa-- the evidence is very small... and the mysterious figure that I kept with me I was witnesses and I was executed with the pencil of an artist was hardly much more important.








Lady, I'm sure you don't need to worry about me.















































































































































































It's not good, I'm the one you're hanging around here.

























- He finds me under a lot of pressure.





















Good morning.





- You're gonna need a little rest there, aren't you?


- It's as good as a night's sleep.








- Are you ready?




































And he was happy to get it until he started getting fat.



If you need any help, I'll leave my number with the desk officer.



















And you're tired of free food and advice and you resented people who had good jobs and money when you left the army with nothing.





















































That's too bad." He was a good member of the army.







No more than they need.



I just need a couple of days to go through all the evidence.




I bet the Aldrone will be happy to see me.






















I want to do something more.









Start with a small case.



















- Okay, okay.









But good politicians, like good boxers, never leave before the final count.




I need company me.






Well, well, I'm always happy to meet a good member of the party.













It's important.



- Well, worse.



- Oh, that's gonna be really nice.









He's a nice guy.




And besides, there's a little question about culpability.
And you don't think any jury in the world would blame a guy who gave the best years of his life to serve his country?
















I'm glad you came, Mac.



- He's a good guy, Paul.


















There aren't many good and honest people in politics.

- Thank you, Mac, but there's something important.



And for God's sake, you need to sleep.










I'm glad you're running the process.






On the day of 22 October of this year, I am charged with being transferred to this court by the City Court on charges of murder in the first degree in connection with the murder of Reverend Georges Yeo. Lambert, pastor of the Pratestantic and psychic Church, is in this city's Ristofer.
























First look at me, of course, it was a perfect case, hardly creating any trouble for me in court I've investigated.

But quite a lot of unusual states have been cited, and it has become very important that all these facts be examined with all possible care, attention and impartiality.
I understand myself, and it's very important for me to the D.A. to try to use my entire team to protect an innocent person to convict a truly guilty man.


I've examined all the evidence with great care.






- I'll wait till 9:00 tomorrow morning.














Well, okay, I'll take John and talk to him, okay?































You want to be the first?












































I don't know. I thought I set this case up better.













Is the life of one person more drowning than that of society?




Are you okay with me, darling?




















And to do that, we need a conviction.






























And on paper, it's not that good a look I'm doing, Harry.






















































- I know a guy there who makes a really good coffee.
























No, I didn't give it to him. He said they needed more money to buy land and I loaned $2,500 to my father...














And you know perfectly well that I will go wherever you go, darling.



























Very good.






























It was a discrepancy of testimony, Your Honor, that I found first.














As a matter of fact, if I'm not mistaken, you were so dressed this morning, Your Honor.



















- Thank you very much.






































































































Our cops I don't understand I la, which was very important to extract this particle for my ballistics experience.
But, Your Honor, this particle was very important to the ballistic experts invited to my office.









































You didn't look very happy to me, Harry.




Mr. Arvy, that was a good performance.
Very good.



I bet the old goat still doesn't believe in his innocence.



- I love him too, but he's still an old goat.































A prize of 10 guineas will be awarded to a man with a copy of "Dalely Messenger" and the first one to call him ""









































We read about you in the paper this morning.









- You know good people.










- A new pair of gloves, sweetheart.







- If you don't mind, I'll order it. - Thank you very much!













- I'm gonna love it tomorrow, darling.












- Yeah, it's a beautiful day, isn't it?















- Nice to meet you.





















That's nice of you, sweetheart.



























Come on, darling.









- Okay, darling.









Tell you what, honey, buy two more tickets, and I'll be right back.































































It wasn't necessary.



























































There were so many people here, and it's my first day.









- Maybe the card's been here all morning.




I want to do the right thing. Right now, standing and talking when you asked for tea.















- Okay.


















- Oh, there's our old friend.





- She's in a bad mood, Mr. Corkery, because of this investigation.







































































I have a good memory of faces.











- Okay.






















It's like a bucket. Come on, let's hear some good music.















































He's been thinking a lot lately.
















I don't need to marry a skirt to make it safe.








Come in the morning.







The old woman's really bad.






































- I think we'd better go to a place where we can talk calmly.




- Yes, my dear, with both of you.
















Taking care of them is the best.


















- Is this table open, darling?




Potato casserole with meat, okay?



- You're sweet, baby.







- Oh, a little man?







- I haven't ordered it yet, darling.











- I need to talk to him.


























I have more important things to do than watch you fight with Bruyer. But you know who's behind him.


































































































- It doesn't matter.
It's important who asked me.




























- It's an old photo.
- No, it's not.













- It wasn't that important.




You're too old for a life like this.









I'll go to Nottingham tomorrow morning.


You'll be needed at the races tomorrow. I need a friend I can trust.










All right, your guys will recognize him.



















I'm glad to hear it, really glad.






- You don't want me, you need him.





I beat them better than they did me.

































- He was a good guy.
- And it's a good thing he's in the world.
























I have more important things.


















It's gonna be expensive.


I need to make some shopping for my wife.


















I'm too old for this game.
I'm too old.
Nobody wants an old man.




I'll always be glad to see you, Pinky.






























- We're gonna have to do this with the wedding.





My condolences to his old friends."




































- Let's go now, I'm ready.








- It's not expensive.



- Okay.













- Hey, buddy! My money is as good as anyone else's.


- I see it well.



- Little fool.



































Good job, she doesn't look like old daddy Pinkie.

























Okay.





















- A glass of old-fashioned sometimes.




- It was a railing, bad railing.



Very bad.


- You need to take an X-ray.












- Hey, there's an old mole.





























- Hey, honey.








- Frank has an old one downstairs.


- Oh, I'm so glad.




- Okay, I'm coming.










- Pinky's gonna buy you a new one.

At least it's better than you.











You're a good girl.








- I should have told them something.












- Listen, my dear, you have to go home.

- Listen, honey.























- Oh, no, no, my dear.











- I'm not done, darling.














Go downstairs, help Judy and tell Dalloy I need him right away.
- Okay.
































He was last seen in the city at 6:15.







- Okay, you can pick him up tomorrow.




Well, no news is good news, I guess.
















This time, I'm sure it's not good.























- If we don't act fast, the worst will happen.















- And Lester's not a bad city.


You and your little Mrs. will live to 80 there.


















- Someday you have to say it.











































- Okay, I got it.





- Okay.

You don't want me to be first, do you?





















Okay, Dally, you're just in time.












































































He needed this marriage to inherit it.













































I suppose you should stay the night, but I'm asking you to leave in the morning.





























It's really nice to meet you, Julie.











And I'm really glad you're here.




Beckett will bring your luggage in the morning.






I needed an address, and it wasn't on the envelope.






Good night, Julie.
























































The next morning, Mark said Jim was sick.








Good night, Sandra.
Good night, Julie.







You can't ask me for more.










I'm so glad.























If Julie gets the same life experience with men as you do, it may not be useful and useless to her, right?


It's beautiful here in the woods.

























It's important that Julie stay honest.
















































And in the morning, tell Mark what you heard. Oh, no, I can't.






- Good morning. - Good morning.


That's good.
Good morning, Mrs. Demarest.
Good morning, Angela.




For the Coldwell family, it would be very beneficial if the senator took on such an important position.

Good morning, Julie.
Good morning, Julie.

No, it's bad.
Bad? Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,















I often took her to the lab when she was little.







You're too excited, my dear.









First of all, I want to see Jim's room.





- Good morning, Mrs. Demarest.
- Good morning. - Miss Julie.
- Good morning.












Mark has always been very nice to us.
























































It's not that bad in this room...










Everyone's ever been scared, dear Julie.










And I thought it would be good for her to have a friend, but on the other hand, I can't shut up about her being unable to control herself.

Don't you understand that reminding Jim is the worst thing you can do for Julie?













I assure you that if Davenport finds a will, I will be the first to sigh with relief.

You, of course, have noticed their portraits on the walls. They were all beautiful.
























I'm glad you have good taste for things.







Oh, no, no. It's a little late for you to change your first impression of me. You don't like me, do you?














So I was still impressed... good, I hope?







With such lovely eyes.





I wanted to confirm my first impression of you.











































































































And everything was fine until you arrived.
She didn't think so... and the first night she told me about how you treated Jim.











I suppose... you'd better go.












For the last time, it's sad, but if you don't know it's the last time, it could be worse.

If only she knew how she would have caught her last moments.

You may not believe it, but it was once a very happy house.


Julie had a little pony.




















I was on the phone with Davenport this morning.




Recent events have gone too far. I'm going to Washington.











I wouldn't want you to have any bad memories of me.



















Just like Dr. Reynolds and old, vetted friends, as well as the servants?





































Along the road to the old abandoned gates and across the woods to the three hills.


It's a nice place.







Have a good walk, ma'am.


Okay!









I'll stay here until I feel better.


































Jim, dinner's ready!































It's a good thing you didn't fall apart.
















The sooner we leave, the better.

I'll take a taxi to the station in the morning. The house is closed.
















See you in the morning.
Good night.























I took them to the best psychiatrists, the best doctors.


























Most of the time, he was normal.


I had to hold his lab until the mix was ready.




















I don't need any clues...


































Maybe it's better that way.














And there's a big Church of St. Mark.






You've been waiting for me so long, dear.






Honey, you're a genius.



Photos of the big fair and parties, friends, celebrating the beginning of the 20th century.






Even if I did, he might not think I was a good investment.
Oh, silly, you'd be a wonderful investment.
















Very good.














What, honey?

















He's very old and smelly.




Little barbarians.



My dear.
These school attendances are getting worse every week.
It's a pretty bad place for a little unfortunate.




Here you go, darling.


Pretty good, yeah.



































These groups of schoolchildren go to museums and showery old places like this.
Then after that, they go to the tea shop, and I go around and eat with them if they don't find me first.










You don't have to lie to your cards.



You're a smart old verwandte, aren't you?







































I called him Piccolo because he's so small.






Oh, honey.























Well, okay.






Oh, I'm so glad you're here, Professor Henry.
Honey.







No, darling.










































Okay.



















I'm glad you came by.










He's a nice little guy, isn't he?






I found her wandering through the streets of the city, she looked hungry, and so on, you know, I thought I should do something humane. I had to take her into my house, which I did.






It's a little song I'm writing.
Gemma has a pretty good voice.



































All right, everybody to the fountain.




That would be good.




Yeah, but every person has to have at least five to be happy.










Nothing bad happened to him.
















But she's got good gloves-- that's my size.

































You don't want to go alone.

You need witnesses.







Oh... if she needed someone worthy, she could choose one from the visitors to her house.

Besides, think about how happy she's gonna be that you followed her.
It's what a woman really needs to be wanted, persecuted, let her feel that she's--

I need a vacation, Dolomita is the perfect place for him.


Very good.


What do we need to do with the train tickets?




Okay.






We can't take a little baby with us.










I'm gonna put this thing in early in the morning, and in exchange, I'm gonna deliver it to Fenella.
You must get married and live in a small house with green shutters.





Every morning you leave your little house, you'll have a great diplomat full of contracts and music, and Fenella will wave goodbye from the top floor.




But you'll have a very good life.
Why wouldn't she be good to you, too?
My dear, Gemma, Carol is a good, trustworthy man from head to toe.








Funny little weirdo, isn't she?

My little Piccolo,



But in a few years, you're gonna grow up, and you're gonna be a big and strong handsome man who makes some women very unhappy.

You're gonna make her happy first, no doubt, but in the end, it's gonna be the same story.










Beautiful.






Well, that would be a very good deal.





Very good.






















Well, okay.





Okay.




















Isn't he handsome?




























Oh, Sebastian, I think we better find another way.






Okay, I'll go first, then if I start drowning you'll know that.




















Oh, there's a cheap and nice hotel.


Great, that's really very nice of you.



That's where it's big as life and twice as great.

Okay.









With a boy, I could sell it for a lot of money.



You're better than him.






Um... pretty good... and not just for the price.

Okay.

Hmm, you should be ready to be the manager of a woman.


It'll make the concert better.








































He's my music and much more beautiful than anything Sebastian ever wrote.








It's important, isn't it?
We could be happy together.


My dear Caryl, do you think love will be pleasant?










I want more.



He seems to think I'm insensitive, there's no blood in my veins, there's no need for happiness like other women.



Okay, if you and Sebastian can do without me.








Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.






I need you, darling.




































The old man with the weirdest things.









Pretty good.





You're happy today, aren't you?











Yeah, I know, but, Sebastian, we won't worry about it if you calm down and write. I know you can-- really good music.
Gemma, darling, to write really good music, I need... inspiration.















A couple new shoes and a wool sweater for Piccolo.
Piccolo needs to buy a wool sweater,


And Carol-- if he saw a star falling, he'd wish for a beautiful Fenella.

I have to take our fee from the hotel manager this morning.










Well, is it that important right now?
Well, of course it's very important.
















Well, you'd be more willing to believe me if I admitted I'd never seen you before, but once I saw you, I had to see you again?




I really don't want to repeat the obvious, but... you're beautiful.
Here near you, it's so cool and beautiful.
I like you... well, you're as beautiful as an edelweiss.









She's like a little chick.








Good music or just a harmonica?
Anyway, if she's really good, symphony, opera.





























Oh, it must be awfully interesting to do such beautiful things - be talented enough to create them right out of the air.

You don't need to.






I have to go back to the hotel.



Very well, then.



Well, okay.























































And things appear to have come into the worst mess you've ever had, you're going up on a high horse and--


















































Like an old bag of potatoes you bought at the market.



Now, if you're ready to listen to me, I'll explain how I met Fenella.









Okay.



















Why, you're a little short.







It's a brand-new beautiful idea that symbolizes the true spirit of spring.






























You little fool.







Maybe you deserve a better man.
But I don't need a better man, Sebastian.
All I need is you.

Oh, Fenella, darling, you look great.
I've never seen you so beautiful.









But still, you've changed since our last date.




















London would be better, I suppose.


That would be a good acquaintance for me.

But I can make you happy, darling.
























What now, darling?
















I'm not happy to see you.




Ah, you got a new suit.










Okay, okay.

















Good old Carol.











We don't need your money.
Gemma, put the shilling in a meter, did you, darling?
I don't know what I would do without her and her little sewing machine.




















Okay.



















You're gonna go buy yourself a new dress for the reception.






Oh. Well, we'll... buy a new one.

That's a good idea.









Very good, my boy.


Beautiful.

You look adorable, my dear.




Not at all, my dear.

Oh, thank you very much.



I suppose the wife should be surprised from time to time.


















Of course, I never had any doubts about that, even on the first night that you curled that melody for me.



It's a bad thing to think.

Only that the biggest mistake anyone can ever make in life is taking it seriously.


















And... if you change her, will it make you happy?


You'll be better off.










Good night.






You know, you're not the first treatment he ever had.



























Very good.







Honey, I have some good news for you.






Okay.



























I have a heart set, but you're doing something really important in music.







Sebastian, like his father, is a big, cruel man, and a windy man who leaves no one alone... a woman apparently never leaves him alone.

There are moments, Carol, when I'm ready to agree with you.












You've been doing it this way for the last two weeks.
Well, in a short skirt, yes, but today is the first time in a long dress.
Okay.












His music is always good.



















Okay.









The posters are all ready.











Honey, please, please, you see I need to think about this?
And for that, I need time.














Thank you very much.






That's so sweet of you.














It's beautiful-- it's quiet and...


He'll be right there, darling.








This is the last time I started writing ballet, I swear.
















Money isn't that important.


















I know you're too good.















You're gonna ruin this, you little fool.







































That sounds like good advice, Gemma.





He's so small.



Do you think he's a little better?

















That's all he needs... because in Italy, he was healthy and happy all the time.







We'd always eat as much bread as we need.

You have to marry Fenella and be very happy and live in a cozy little house, and every morning when you go to work, you're leaving your little house, you're gonna have a gorgeous diplomat full of contracts and music, and Fenella's gonna wave goodbye to you.

















Later, you bring this bottle back to me with your little pen.















It's gonna happen one day, you know.

Okay... parties, rooms full of flowers and music, good people.
Oh, good.


I didn't mean to, darling.






I think there's a lot of good in it.



Dad says every genius has a little creature like yours because when he starves in the attic, he has to have someone cheap.



Because I'm taking you home, my dear.











And this is the most beautiful moment that ever happened to you... because I'm taking you back to Carol's.




What do you want, a good marriage, and a good husband--
Now you're using that word "good."




Good friends.




Oh, it's gonna be a big success, Sebastian.


















That's better.




It's such a little word.
















Maybe, maybe, in time, I'll be a good man.
But I don't need a good man, Sebastian.
I just need you.
These are the last trucks, Lieutenant.






















































































Good night.















































Of course, I'd be happy to give him a few points of reference.





























In two weeks, you're gonna be writing new music.











I had some good ideas.


- And thank you, thank you very much.



























The old, good Brooklyn Bridge.





No, I'm just happy.







You're happy in Brooklyn, though, could you be there already in New Norke?







I need the 14th regiment's arsenal.










It's my last day.


It's a good day, isn't it?
There are no good days in Brooklyn.









Oh. Is that why you need to be in the arsenal?
I didn't know it needed to be done so fast.





You know, it's hard to describe what it means for me to meet a little, dark-haired girl with a twitched nose on her first day back in Brooklyn.
That's a good sign.
Not that I don't think it's gonna be okay, but right now I'm pretty sure it's gonna be okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, you are not setting a very good example for our little guests from school 65.



I think we're gonna start with this two-vote experiment, okay?



Ready?






Thank you very much.






























But I'm glad I didn't because you're a very angry girl.



































Just no more than one nail for each, okay?

























But first, I have to go through the re-registration.




It's your first night home.







Well, as a man who didn't have it, I'll tell you, the girl needs it first.
Then if you don't have anything else, it doesn't matter anymore.





How do you like my new London outfit?










Beautiful, huh?











Would you be able to make a veal like the one that's preparing for the arrival of dear guests?


I'm glad to hear it from you.





























































































I don't need a lamp, I just need to believe in myself.




For two weeks, I've been trying to get the courage to see my old boss.

He was in a good mood, by the way.






I'd rather be back on the shipment.









You're gonna be okay.

Oh, Leo, that was beautiful.





Mom doesn't want any talk.
She's already sick because I can't go on studying.










But I'm still gonna need textbooks, clothes, and a normal piano.


Doesn't Brooklyn Music Forum give you a scholarship and a big scholarship?










I've been trying to get a new mop for two years.






What do you need more charm?









Oh, that's too bad.














It's beautiful.



From time to time, I tell myself that I'm so happy to be able to love you.
So happy to be the one you're in a hurry to see at the end of the day.




Happy having a chance to love you.
It's beautiful.
Feeling better, huh?









The absence of what you want doesn't mean it's bad.










She's been freaking out lately.












Trust me, she asked me first and, uh...




If that's true, it's for the best.












I need to close the windows in the gym.











You know, Miss Fielding, you're extremely nice, but please don't worry about me.








Maybe it'd be better to be interested in them than in yourself.
You know, people always want something and aren't happy until they get it.











Thank you very much.

Good night.




You think I made a very good impression?













Okay, I admit I like her.




















Very good, thank you.
Wow, it's good to see you.


Jamie, this is Nick Lombardi, my best friend.























Danny said in the telegram that he met the most beautiful girl.
























What an excellent command of English.




And he remembered your last words.
- My last words?
















That would be great.
Except it's not beautiful at all.





And, well, I'm happy I met you, and I hope we'll see each other again.



Good night, Nick.





He just needs to talk, it won't be very difficult.




Good night, Danny.




















I'm sure it won't get any worse.











It doesn't matter what you sing.
The important thing is that it comes from the heart.

It's a good thing I went with you.









There's a difference between big and small.














And take the best love songs.










You can sing as well as Bing.























It's expensive.







Thank you very much, Mr. Dobson.
It's okay.






If the treasurer misses the meetings, it's not very good.



Let's drink to Danny's new job, okay?




Okay, I've been dealt with.

























I've been thinking lately that maybe they're right that there's something missing in my singing.
- I think you have a great voice.




























What a great chance.










Look, what a beautiful chato.


























When she was a little girl, did she have braids or big bants in her hair?





















Good night, Danny, it was a great night.


























But as soon as the choir starts singing, the alarm bell rings, it's the same old dream.

I know her by heart, we're gonna break up-- it's the same old dream.

I know your heart would open up to me, you'd be with me until my dream became a happy dream. / i

We're kissing, and I realize that I'm alone again-- the same old dream.







The choir starts singing, and then my alarm starts ringing, it's the same old dream.


I know all this by heart, we're about to break up. It's the same old dream, it's a little crazy, it's the same old dream.



I know your heart would open up to me, you'd be with me until my dream became a happy dream.
And I can see clearly what's so precious to me, and at the center of it, you're my queen.
We're kissing and I realize that I'm alone again - it's the same old dream, the same old dream.




- Good job.
- Thank you very much.









Mr. Dobson wants to talk to me about a very important case.









After the blizzard, when it's so beautiful.




Little killers.






















Okay.

























I'd like to tell her how... the day-to-day blooms with new colors and how every single thing starts to mean something more.

































From time to time, I tell myself that I'm so happy with a chance to love you.
So happy to be the one you're in a hurry to see at the end of the day.


And from time to time, I'll tell you how happy I am.

Oh, that's beautiful.
Perfectly fine.


That's even better.




























Leo is my best student.







We're so happy to see you.
















He's still a little boy, my Leo, but he thinks he's an adult.







But those with talent, they need more, and I can't give them that.





You're right, he needs more than ordinary guys to understand.








My dear Miss Fielding, I have no doubt that the boy is wonderful, but I still don't see the point in auditioning.







He needs a concert.



























Okay, I'll try.






























Thank you very much.








- Thank you very much.











You know, I never thought I'd be able to sit next to the stage whether it was small or not, and not think about myself?






Oh, you decide that first.


Okay.

You're coming to the Cardos concert tonight, okay, Mr. Roberts?



Okay. I'll see you there.


That's the last one.



Who's gonna notice when I'm wearing my new tie?

















Maybe it's because she's the first girl you've met and I wanted to help you figure it out.







They're beautiful.





They're beautiful, they're dark, and I like them.

















But there's little gold creeps in them.




Her hands are like a little girl's.
And she has perfume like a little girl who smells so clean and smells like soap.
You know what the sweetest thing about her is?



I think I'd better go change.



We need to get Anne in time.


Okay.







- Okay.










He's my best friend, Anne, I...
Oh, honey, that's very noble but, at the same time, stupid and very childish.














Anne, darling, what can I do?









Thank you very much.















- Yeah, I'm going back to England in the morning.





















I don't want Jamie because of Danny Miller's courtesy or Nick Lombardi.
Truth be told, I don't need Jamie at all.









































































The ones who waited until the last.
But you'd better hear how it happened.










No, I need to do some tests for that.


















I understand that you'd like to travel, but it would be much better to take care of it immediately.




Well, I think you're making a big mistake.







- Don't wait until the last one.









I thought you'd better take a look at it.



We'll take care of you immediately and you'll feel better.
They're the ones who don't wait till the last time it's too late.





























And you have a little bit of me in the uterus that I need to take care of.



You don't have to expect the worst.
It's not that bad, 'cause you're smart enough for me to come to us on time.






She came in at first stage, if you know what that means.







It's stage one.






You see how serious the last stages are.





These people didn't wait until the last one.













The extensive oaks provided wood for the first Danish churches.
They were made up of a little cliros in the east and nefa in the west.





The stone construction was a new word at the time.

The churches were built in a romantic style, with round arches, during this first big period of church construction.
Almost all the old churches preserved the stone walls of that time.
The windows were small and located high, close to the beam closures.
They gave very little light, but they didn't need more, because the parish did not sing in the Psalms.





Some of the oldest stone churches are made of white limestone.














About 1250. There is a new style in Denmark.



The old wooden ceilings were replaced by brick vaults, where thin, air nerves came together in sharp arches.
Some churches demanded two nephs, since the old romance nephs were so wide that they could not be covered in one row of vaults.




Large red medieval bricks have been used more and more frequently, especially for gothic annexes.
The churches were accompanied by towers and raspberry, parperty and chapels, and some large rural churches have demanded three nephs.








Preaching has become one of the most important parts of the service. The ceremonies were so long that the parish needed a place to sit, so the churches were filled with benches.
Let us not rely on acts or limitations of the law, but only on the word of the New Testament, which facilitates our conscience.



Today, the village church is the oldest building in the county, but it doesn't look like it did when it was built.








Finally, we have before us the oldest stone church, a small romantic building with one cliros and one neph.







Built in stone, the Church is worth a lot, even when the towers are broken and the spires are crumbling all over the earth, the bells are still ringing and calling, calling the young and the old to rest, for above all the souls of the beggars are put to rest forever.










































































































































































































































































































































































































































I answer for her. And I'm gonna have to take care of it as I see fit.






























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































And I'm gonna need the Banameikes.



































































































































































































































It's because I was a cute old man, and she was a pain in the ass.


























































































































And no one's gonna blame me for what I've been through as long as I think I need to.






































































































He's a cute old man. And I love that you want to help him, that one thing you have to do is look at things and see the facts in your face.

































Mr. Kringle showed me a very nice man, and I don't know what you're gonna do to him.












































































































































He's kind, sweet, and funny.





























































































































You're just a cute old man with the real shit that my mom says.








































































You better tell me why you have to pay for the food.



















We need to get pasta, and we'd better get here first.











There's only one toilet in the old part of the neighborhood.


































Look how beautiful and unhappy she is!






































- Okay, I better go, 'cause it's not gonna end well.


- Okay. - We can finally get some sleep.


'Cause one day you're gonna get a good one if you don't get up at 8:00.













































I'm the master here, and I'm doing what I think is right!

















Bad?
Bad for who?
Bad for you!






I need pasta!

























They all need to be arrested!














- But it's better to press charges.




It would be better if you stayed and repeated the list of missing products.






What a big picture!


But next time, we're gonna need to get dressed better.


























- Stopping the bus two kilometers away, like we've got extra money for new sub-notes.

- There's so much to do.

















- We need to fill out the form.












- Okay.


Peppino, stop it, you're worse than the flood.















It's the outside they seem to be, and the inside of the apartment is almost ready.





















































In two months, you have to give up the house, ready and free.















- Okay.






























She didn't do anything wrong.
She needs to feed the baby.
























They're building new houses instead of cleaning up ours!


I need instructions.









No, no reporters, stay calm.
Okay, as you wish.





You've been left with the most beautiful rooms with a lasurel and a bathtub.








It's all set.






- Beautiful, but your father didn't like her.













I wish I'd drowned that day!















- We'll get better tomorrow.














Let's not talk about it anymore.

Yeah, that's better.






















Okay, if you're not in charge, I've got a lot of orders.









That's cute!



































































- There's more important things to do.


We need to get ready, study the program!



Politics is important.

















I haven't eaten anything since this morning!




- Adriana, ready?





What does he want?










































- Benedetto, you have a big apartment.



Instead of letting strangers go home, this lady is better off.







It was a pleasure to meet you.
- Pleasure?






Who'd say we'd have to negotiate, huh?















Mommy, darling!
- How much do you need?








Don't we have a bad party?





- All right.














Yeah, but you have to be able to talk for that.
















































He won't notice, and if he does, there's nothing wrong with it.















- Okay.







Okay, we all need to make a deal.





Paragraph one: we must eat and eat well.








The first thing to do is to free the house.









You have to be fair.





- All the worse for him.

















Signor Callisto is a good man.









- And it was so good...




























There'll be important people there.



You're gonna be an important person.









But you're good with your hat.








- Well, are you ready?









If you need to read something from Callisto, they'll be better off.
All right, I'll take my glasses.

Thank you very much.






Mommy, what a day!







You're just doing it like a little one?




















When it was necessary to have nine children.











You should be happy your wife's making a career!

























We're ready!























































- I'm so glad I've heard a lot about you.

- That's cute!
Congratulations, you have a beautiful daughter. - Thank you.

They're beautiful!


- We need to talk to you.


- That's a great idea!








We have to keep up with time if we don't want to get out of fashion.




You're lucky you don't have kids.
I'll be glad to meet this Angelina.

Not yet, but I can tell you the good news.







































As soon as the brochure is ready, I'll send it to you, you can learn it by heart.



It took a night to make me realize what was wrong.




None of them are as good as you.


I'm glad to see your father is so kind to you and your mother.








I need to tell you something very important.











Well, given that reasonable people are supposed to help each other, I've decided to give you a little gift.





But I'm always willing to increase the amount.





- It could be annoying for them now that they're used to new houses.















































Don't worry, the contract isn't exposed to any risks.


































































You're worse than Mr. Callisto!



























































I should've thought of everything earlier.

Of course, family is important.
We need to keep her safe.





















- Thank you very much.




It's all about this little witch who runs it.









- Okay.
























Thank you very much.









You went to prison to give us new houses, and we talked so bad about you.





- To the new houses!











I'm so glad!


She's the most beautiful!



















Wait for me here, okay?

- Okay.
















You don't need me anymore.










































I want to raise them as I see fit.





A more peaceful man who won't let himself be fooled.

But if you call me to protest, I'll always be ready because it's natural for me.




































It's better if you don't talk, 'cause I'm the one who decides.




Goodbye. Thank you very much.



















Libero's gonna be smart, we're gonna have a new apartment in a month.



































Burned hamburger and a new novel.























If he goes out with Jim's girlfriend, no one else will see him, and that's gonna be bad.




- The sign isn't small.
















- Where was the best?







That's good.















Good to see you.



- I need you.














- I was just passing by and then, turns out, my old buddy, pouring gas...



Well, I'm glad to see you.
So we're gonna go to a restaurant, have a drink, remember old times, then you're gonna get in the car and leave?







- Worse.


When he needed me.

- What does he want?








- So tomorrow morning?



Big house on the hill.




Never mind, darling.






- I'm calm.











The first thing you need to know is:




I wanted to, but I kept putting it off because there's nothing good about it.


It doesn't matter.









I had to go to the client myself. He was too big a shot.















A lady with a gun can't be worse.











One day I bet 40 grand on the horse that came last, and I bought it.



















- Okay.














- Okay.




This is my good friend, Jeff Markham.

















- Tell him, darling.

























All I had to do was wait. I was waiting for her at the little La Mara cafe near the local cinema.







I'm José Rodriguez, the best guide in the world.




- I don't need a guide.













But why would you do that if you don't have anyone to say, "How beautiful, isn't it?"





Jose will always be pleased with you.








I was happy about it, and I quickly realized why.





I knew she wasn't coming the first night, but I was sitting there... waiting.

She waited until it was dark and then she came to me, beautiful and smiling.


























I know Acapulco a lot better than José Rodriguez.












All right, let's go.

















Are you glad you found me?






I want nothing from him, not a cent.

























- I didn't know you were so small.

And much prettier.























To start a new life and get away from Whit.












I'm glad you're not afraid of him.




























It's gonna be a big race soon.


















- Nice shoes.






Nice place.



























- Whit, this isn't my first assignment.
I grew up as big as you, if you don't like something, say it straight.











































But he wasn't capable of more than that.














It's like the first time I've met her.





















You have a good memory.




















And try to freak me out like it was the last time we met!

































Good to see you.






















Beautiful view, huh?




I need you.
Like old times?














- He needs more money.
















- No, you better.



Beautiful view!






























































Just go, okay?















Even better.






Even from the old house, you can make candy with good repairs.
I had an old house in New York.
Not very handsome.




You're very nice, but I'm afraid I don't know what you're talking about.








































I'm fine.






















































It was good to see you both.















He's not that good.




- Beautiful.


























































That's great, Katie.


























Beautiful.











We'll demand everything we need.


















We'll go to Acapulco and start over like the first time.






Of course, darling.




































- It's all set, sir.



- Bad memory is almost like a disease.































We don't want your millions."









I need a confession that Mita put in the safe when she took the papers.















- It doesn't matter.






































- I don't think my business is good.




Leonard Ils, a lawyer, was found dead in his apartment on Fulton Street this morning." So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, u
























































If you think of anything better, say it.



Good guys, aren't they?

















- You're beautiful, Katie.























But I'm not going to Acapulco. I'm gonna get old memories.

It's not that bad.


It's better if you turn her in to the cops.


















The last time I saw him was lying on the rocks.


















































































- Tonight's the last time.






- I don't need any more.








































But you needed another one.





No one needs papers anymore.


















It's not gonna work. I'm the only one who needs you, understand that.
And you're the only one who needs me.














I wonder if he knows which one's a bad guide?














You knew him a lot better.




Nice friend.









I haven't changed at all! - Good old Charles!

It's a hell of a pleasure to meet you!
- First nice meeting in Paris.





The doctor says I have to go south, but it's not that simple: I'm married, I have a job that I can't give up...





It's a beautiful word to call them a newspaperman...
















I'm sick of the army, but I don't think Paris is much better than...


For the last six months, I've served in the North Railway Department, receiving 1,500 francs annually.



I've done a lot of stupid things by buying a toy tonight, and it's completely inedible!


I'm gonna need the same strong stick to get out of here.

























































Madame Clotilda de Marelle, my good friend.















The lovely girl at the window is their daughter, Susannah.






































I think Punch is so popular this hasn't been the first century because he's a bastard.




That's right: you need talent here.

















I'd rather lose... 20,000 francs.
The Duellans are no better than the killers, they should be punished no less cruelly.










I need you to help me.







- I'm busy this morning...





- She'll help as much as I can.






Stay calm!













When I saw you last night, I kept thinking, how lucky this Charles is, she's beautiful.










- Ah, Bernard! It's so good to see you.

May I introduce old comrade Charles, Monsieur Georges Durois...
Our best and closest friend, Count de Vodrec.







My dear friend.

My dear friend.




Nice friend!


















You're smart enough to stay beautiful, and your beauty won't replace your sharpest mind.









She's too good for mediocrity.










She's as beautiful as her mother, and even smarter than her.




I think I'm gonna call you "Dear Friend."




Okay.


































"When we first met, you said that fate had brought us together.

At first sight, I felt for you. I've opened my heart to you.





I love you so much that all the love of others is sweeter than your cruelty.
I love you so much, I'm willing to forgive everything.







My dear friend, I give myself to you and my inexhaustible love."




















I didn't come to you because it's better.























If you pay attention to Mrs. Walter, you'll get more.









Inspired on important things, disproved it so as to actually confirm...




You have to be smug, considerate... know what you can say and what you can't say.










- Goodbye, dear friend.






"George Durois asks Madame Walter to accept these fruits he received from Normandy this morning."
How nice of you to send me these fruits!
They were gathered in a famous garden near my old house.


We're discussing an important issue, and we wanted to ask you, as an expert.



- A dear friend will always support us.

The woman has a great advantage over the statue...








Somewhere in the distant corner of the planet, there must be young, beautiful and virtuous women...


You don't need protection.








But he started it first.













I turned 16 today, my dear friend.










A good man, loyal, honest...










A marriage of love is a joy to the heart, and there is no greater happiness in the world.



















I ordered the right size.







Listen to him, my dear friend!

Don't leave me alone with Charles at his last moments.







Is it that bad?






They're beautiful, aren't they?






















When we were writing our first article, when I was talking to you about my column, "Echo," I was thinking about life, where work and feelings go hand in hand, about a happy couple, and I was hoping that that kind of life would make you happy.







I, like you, think our union will be happy.
























It's a good thing you came so early.
Important developments have taken place in Morocco.

We need to write a big article.



Still, I'd be happy if we tried smarter for someone.
















All you have to do is visit the seal keeper and put an ad in the press.











Your news is good: I might be able to find out something about her old husband's business.
We have more important things to do than Madame Walter.









Lately, some of our pricks have enjoyed calling me Forestier.



I'm gonna slap the first person who's ever gonna let this joke happen again.




And you, sweet friend?
You're gonna let me call him Pretty Friend?




How do you like your new life?

As you can see, we've made great strides...

I'm a famous journalist, my wife is the owner of the first political salon in Paris.























I've made an important decision and I'll tell you about it if you turn your back.



















"I opened fire in an old fireplace full of fireplaces."



































I think you're the only good woman I've ever known.


Nice friend!


















"We need to talk about a very important case.
Wait for me at 2:00 at the Rish Cafe. I can do you a big favor.

What else do you want from me?




























Besides, the services you gave them cost more.





The train was big, but I think I was the only passenger.




















"I love you so much that all the love of others is dearer to me than your cruelty.
I love you so much, I'm willing to forgive everything.



My dear friend, I give myself to you and my inexhaustible love."






Of all your fans, I'd prefer the old idiot Vodrek.


"Old ass." Vodrec died an hour ago.


He sent for me this morning.










We need to explain this.


Okay, I believe you.


Okay, we'll give up the inheritance.
We'll have one million less, that's all.

- I know what to do.






































We're very happy that you've visited us.




I need to talk to Laroche-Mathieu about the African campaign...



Ah, here you are, sweet friend!






















- The day after tomorrow, January 1st.






















Are you ready to believe me?

















Daddy, with his millions, I need a better name than Georges Durois.






- I'll file for a divorce tomorrow morning and give you your name.













In October, before the new election, I will run for office.







Goodbye, dear friend.








Maybe this is the most important moment of my life.
















I love a nice friend and I want to marry him.












You've got him all the time, you've got him, you've got him, you've got him. From morning to evening, all you hear is, "Dear friend, dear friend..."






- Are you sure you're gonna be happy?






I mean, I could do better than that, but in terms of mind and career, I doubt it.


I need to talk to your mother.













The last of the genus was in the woods, in the woods hut.










To prevent great evil.















You have to be strong, rise above prejudice.


The self-interest in the work is still better than in the work of women and love.
























"De Cantel will fight to the last."



A gentleman would love to drive you.
















- Okay.











I'm gonna shoot here, there's a lot of important organs.








I'm afraid it'll rain until morning.



I haven't thought about seeing you since we last met.







I got the old daddy, he doesn't need much.








What happened, sweet friend?







If only you could forget our last meeting and remember this date.





I'm not afraid for a dear friend: I've seen him shoot, he'll come out whole.



























A good cigar calms my nerves: I don't need any advantage.
















Ready?








Nice friend!

Do you hear that, dear friend?





The old cat...

I'd be happy with her...

























Beautiful, tell me, please, just think, jealous of me, old snooping!


What does this Polyshinel want?
































I'm gonna order a poster, beautiful one, with my "stra-la-la."






And you, my old dried pear that I forgot about, the tube from my mouth could have gotten out.








Beautiful.

No, I think it'd be better...
















Dumbass, we're old friends, we grew up together.



















Are you ready?




Beautiful! 'Cause I'm starting to miss you.

I'm always ready to do you a favor.

























Excellent, Monsieur Brignon. I was just about to call you to my office tomorrow.


- They're good, they're the best.
I'm so happy!












It's not my first day living, I'm gonna make him dance my way.


Is she ready?










Is that good?




















I went to the cafe to have a drink with a very important gentleman.



















































I need Monsieur Brignon. You see...






























I'd be ashamed not to trust a beautiful girl like Genie.










Okay, well, she was afraid I'd forget.






















- Okay, Monsieur Moray. I can do it at the gallery.






Good evening. - Are you okay?




















Please don't hurt me! I thought everything was gonna be okay.






I grabbed the first one that came into my hand, a bottle of champagne... and hit him as hard as I could.




































All the better.





















































Shouldn't we tell her?









I need a wife like you, Dora.












































I was in a competition for the best face.




















And here's the proof: the less I see, the calmer I live.
































She's on the ground floor.



All the worse, we're gonna have to call her to the police.





Oh, not at all, it's a very good profession.








Is it true that you're great friends with Mademoiselle Monier?


















































Okay, thank you, darling.










































He needed a little girl to command.


































The sooner we figure this out, the better for everyone.





























I spent the whole evening in Paradise, it's a little musical hall.








































- So, Genie, are you ready?
















That's who should take good tone lessons.









































































About half the first one.



A small bistro in front of the service entrance.



Okay, I'll see you and Martino in five minutes.


















- See you again!
















Let's start, beautiful child. Recorded from Monsieur Martino Maurice, place of birth











After serious music sessions at the Paris Conservatory, where I won the first harmonica award, I continued to perform the song when I met a certain Margaret Shofurnier, known as Genie Lamour.


















New paragraph.















No, no, I got up during the vocal quarter that ended the first ward.






















New Year's Eve.


And I said to him, "I didn't have the honour to sing in your establishment, but it's better to give up once and for all."

Good evening, Madeleine. Do you have a new address for Seldov?




























It's better not to have anything to do with you.













And for that, he wasn't the first.


























You have a great job.




We called him Bearded Dwarf, because he was small and always shaved.




You're right, they're better off facing less, they're not the nicest society.








I told you first.


Well, I was ready to swear.




Okay. Thank you.











It's better to die, a real pulmonary inflammation.

















That's better, it's dark, nobody's gonna see me.







Yes, darling.

I feel so bad!
I feel so bad!


Okay, you'd better know everything.












- Nothing, darling, sleep.

See, asshole, he's ready, look.


















Well done, more people like you.















































Old man, with your bad eyesight...
































Buddy, good buddy.







Where does your buddy live? Your good buddy.


A small diner near the square of the Republic.









I'll take my grandma's Christmas presents and show you my new hat.




















It's better to be in your place than his.












Merry Christmas! It's not that long.









Okay. Why don't you stay with us?



Do you think they read the papers on Christmas morning?







My dear Camille, it's none of your business.
















It's very simple... the better!







No, no, I'm very happy.



















That's better.

Another little effort. That was eight, wasn't it?





Why did you have to go into the garage?








































































When was the last time you saw her?











Don't cry like that, you little one. - You had a gun?















Apartments, of course, aren't, but it'll be better in the cell tomorrow.






What do you want?










Is your wife even beautiful?











It's just a laugh. It reminds me of my first communion.























You shouldn't have. I felt so good, I was so far away.
My goat, my poor little goat!

Hurry up, or they'll take me away. Don't think badly of me.
































But you'll never see a good friend again.















































































That means she wants a greedy old cat.
- All right, I'm coming, Mom!
























This calm fragrance music that I will never forget...






- You think I'm good enough for that?



If you win, we'll take you to one of the big competitions.



It's a good tune, but it's a bad setting.

Come to the store in the morning and I'll give it to you.



- It was great, Morrie.











It's better to get rid of it quickly.


- Not through the old Nezley.







- Nice night work.


Sweet Fanny Adams!





















- Where's that old cat?

Good morning, Mrs. Spray.



























Good night.









Okay.





















- You look like you need one, too.

- All the best.












A gift for a bad girl.





Oh, honey.










Not sold for less than 10 guineas.




Here's a good copy for the lady who's passing by.

I have a big size for a lady who's coming back.
Is it too big?




I have the best choice on Petticot Lane... London's market )
Last one!
I've got another last one.
And this is the last one...








I want a front page interview.
Thank you very much.
Last time, on the front page of the East London Courier.









I'm talking about your old friend, Tommy Swanna.










- Anything to do, Dad?
- How much do you need?
I still have to make two shillings to buy a harmonica.











A good way to spend Sunday morning!



















That's all I need.











I think you both need to cool off.



If you wear them in the morning, you won't regret it...
- Good morning, Mr. Hayams.
- Good morning, Mr. Fozergill.


Big demand for rollers now?





What else am I supposed to be if I work until 3:00 in the morning?








































































I need some fresh air.















I've been having some terrible pain lately.



























- Don't be so good.







- A little bird told me.




You know, a smart little girl like you deserves better than a gas plant.






You want a better job, of course.



















Fresh, only cut in the morning.














I think you're gonna need a little divorce instead of being locked up at home all day.











All right.













And next week, there's this amazing little apartment over the beauty salon.





























Nice duck weather and assidistry! (Beginning................................................... Plants )



























- I need to put the flowers in the vase.









The sooner I leave again, the better.































































He's a good guy.

Yeah, let's go check on the old Nisley now.
Then the kid's got the right hook and he's ready!

- Oh, good morning, Mr. Fozergill.



- I'll have a big one.


You guys have expensive requests.



































Because it's easier to catch three little keels than one whale.

















Join the happy crowd of the saved forever.




- I'm so glad it's not the landlord!








This beautiful music without words, wet leaves...



- But we need to improve the dictation. - I see.

You have to be really good tonight to get somewhere.














Will you be a good boy if I give it to you for free?

Don't you want me to be a good boy, too?

What a morning!



- Bad morning, isn't it?



Have a good day.
Good morning, Miss.









It's just that me and the guys were rehearsing a few new numbers.
Look, Morrie, I know everything about you and your little shicks. ).......................................











Food and dry clothes are all I need.








Nice rock.


































What did they want?

























Too bad you can't find a good guy like him.











There's been a big meal somewhere.


























- Get off your rostrum, okay?


They'll turn the old building into a new gym.

- How much do you need?









Does the color of money matter if it's directed to a beautiful, noble cause?


I suppose it's okay not to ask if the old friend came by today?













Tommy Swann was here this morning wearing dark glasses and a long black beard.




























If you took my mirror, I need it now.





My new dress!





















You better put something on.
You better make her buy me some new clothes!
There's something I need to tell you.








You can't help her with more lies.













And the brave little boy said, "Go away!"
















I need to find myself a room.


Okay, bye.



It must have been a very bad disease to change Mr. Feiner's voice on the soprano.




Good girl.







You know what I first suggested to Doris?








That's what we need in a first-class place like ours.


I like those who are easier and more peaceful and have nothing to lose.




So you think I'd rather stay at the gas plant?

Thank you very much, Mrs. Hayams.





My sister said you needed help with this gym.

- Thank you very much.


























We need to meet him on the case.

Yeah, but it's important.



There was no need to take it out on me in front of that old gag.





Do you think I need my house to be considered a meeting place for criminals?

Let's talk less about "criminals."
You used to be happy with us.















Mr. Nisley, sometimes you have to take a product like this, not just a good one.

We need something to hold on to right now.





No, more than I can offer you guys... £5.


Okay.


We'll bring them in in the morning.










Okay.





First time I got caught, they recorded me.













After the first time you came out, but you didn't come to see me,


















- Okay.
























- Old Nisley is an old fucking thief.
- And the old fucking liar.















- Yes. You dirty old thief.













Thank you very much.

Hello, darling.
Big gin.
































- You see, he's got nice freaks you should know about.



Of course, he needs tea in bed every morning.

























- Good night.
- Good night, Mom.

- Good night, Dad.








A good sip of Guinness will cure you.













You need a shirt.










I think she's gonna cry about old times.
I don't understand you, darling.












- Listen, darling.
When I need a story, I get it.



















































You're gonna find yourself a little chicsu that's gonna serve you.

















- I need the money.






Whitey Williams, I need you!












All right, Sergeant. I'll warn the people.






We're gonna need volunteer teams to find out.
















Director Faye Moo "Spring in a Small Town"
I live in a small town. Days are like each other.
I like to come to the wall every morning when I go to the market.






The last remaining servant,
















But it's still chilly in the morning.





































Thank you, don't.





Okay.





























































































- Okay.





























Beautiful!
















That's so good!






































No, it's okay.

You need another blanket.

You have to, it's cold today.






























Let it be bigger in the sun.
- The weather's good right now.


























Beautiful bonsai!



















Good morning.

























Good morning.































My wife is a good woman.



















Lion is a good man.









































Why? It's good here.

It's nice to live in a small town. Especially in our family.






















Okay?














Okay, I won't go out with her.









- He's a good friend.
- He's better than me.





















- All right.






Good morning.


































































Wait, bring me a big cup!
Whoever loses drinks out of the big one.


Drink from a big cup!






















































And today I saw you so happy.


I'm gonna be okay, but I'd rather die.













I need you.



Yuven needs you.
If you stay, she'll be happy.
Yuvan needs you, not me.
I almost committed a great sin.












































































No, it's better this summer!



































































- Stupid! We'd better look for a hawk.

















































That's exactly what we need.




































































So what are we gonna do about this old bastard?

I'll tell you in the morning.









































Good morning, gentlemen...



















Well, that was the last of them.































Okay, you can read.











No one wants music...




And that dog didn't ask when one morning in the woods... found out he was coming for me.





Like everyone who had to run because they got sick somewhere.

Big trouble.


Okay.






Just need a few beams and a bit of desire.






- Dinner's ready!


















If something really bothers you or the other way around is so good that you don't know how to say it, you can say it all in music.




































No worse than being trapped in poverty.








But we didn't do anything wrong.
"We didn't do anything wrong."


















Good morning.


I don't want to go to the village yet.



































































































Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.

Very good.



























Can you offer me something better?


















I saw him this morning.

















I'd be glad to know you forgot...















Sweet Kuxie...
Guys, Kuxie needs a doctor.




Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.





































































War, poverty and despair have led them to the great road!























The rock with the ruins belongs to them... and all the children who need a home.










New people are writing new laws.
New laws?











Aren't you happy?
I think it's worth a lot of money.





















We're gonna build a big house with a big garden... there's gonna be a lot of toys... a toy railroad and a train... and a bear, a teddy bear.














Okay, Mincha.



















All right, then, look at the watch on the fireplace.















She's very kind, really nice.



























Honey, no, not me.

No, darling...








No, no, honey, no.












I'm perfectly calm.






You have to be strong and prepared.















No, darling...











I was the first to find you.















It doesn't matter.


Mincha is a poor little thing.



I think it'd be better if you took her, darling.





She's better off if she's with you.


Okay, honey, let's see.






Okay, okay.









Listen, darling, I have a favor to ask.













Yeah, I'm calm now...







Better get some sleep if you need to get up early.
In the morning.




















No, I'm saying that... when I look at myself in the mirror... you're so cute...



















Thank you very much, Giuseppe, forgive me, good night.






That's very nice of you.
It's really nice of you to call.










Look, honey, I've never lied to you, have I?

















I'll be calm, tell me.
















Martha came at 4:00 a.m. with a doctor who lives in their house.




Lately, I was afraid she'd hear my voice.

Yeah, honey, tell me...

I suffered, but I should have heard your voice, how much better I felt.


No, my love, I was so happy...

I didn't say because I didn't want to destroy our last weeks together.





Well, they have these bad habits because they know you never sleep at home.









And worse still, I was waiting for your call, and I fell asleep.

For the last five years, I've lived for you, you've been the only air I've ever breathed.























It doesn't make sense for a dog to stay here. It would be very bad and dangerous.


No, I just said it's good to be with the people you live with.











But it's even better to do what I do, just ignore her.








I'm not capable of lying, not even a little one.
























































Oh, my God, how beautiful you are!





My beautiful saint!







You're the best saint, you know that?









I'm so happy!














My dear St. Joseph... you must take me with you to another world.




Saint Joseph is handsome!

You're so beautiful!
It's so beautiful!












How handsome you are!
































My beautiful St. Joseph, help me die.











It's beautiful.





































Very bad.



















Beautiful!





He was so handsome.























The most beautiful flower...




















God loves us all, but it's always better to get the priest's advice.


































You're bad.



















Do you need some water?















Okay...



























































My darling.






And everywhere, we could see new European citizens as refugees.




































Okay.









This isn't your first violation.


























She meant nothing to me more than a beautiful kartine.










It's more than that.























You need a drink to warm up.














- Even better. Take it.



















Okay.




















You'd better take off your coat, it's soaking wet.



"In times of distress, think of comfort," is an old soldier's rule.

Okay, I'll be right there.
I have to go.




Stay here and use everything you need.



































Colonel, that was a good joke.
Or not? Very good.







You'd better go back in the roundabouts, or you'll run into someone on the way and start pumping them off without a passport.

































You'd better fill me in.















































































































He wasn't happy with me.




Okay.
















It's better than a place I don't know.






- I think you'll be fine here.

You need to sleep.









Actually, it's better to write it down.




All you need is time. For a while to forget everything.


















This lady came out of your room one morning.
































I think it's best if you go back to your friends.




























































It's good to get bored like that.
You came to me out of pity, but it's still a big deal.











I've been given small roles.











- Who's that? He's a very important man.






It's my first night back.

























On our first night, it was the hottest drink ever.
























- Good night!




- Cheers! - Good night!


















This monsieur has a bad memory.









You see, the lady's memory is better than yours.












The kitchen table... a temporary field hospital... under "ranhues... a little white house in an almond grove.










It's a good hotel.
I just moved in this morning.



















I'm happy. I told you I was in love.

Happy?

And when was the last time?










































- Coffee and brandy. Okay.



I love you, and I'm happy.














- Okay.










Keep your eyes open and be prepared for anything.




You have to risk it and be a hero in the name of what you don't know.





Good morning, Monsieur Ravic.







I'm not gonna ask you anything. I'm so glad you're back.


- The dead man doesn't need anyone.


Ravic, we need to get out of here.

Okay, we're leaving. Where the sun shines.






I have to open my belly to one important face.













- That's good.
- Yeah, that's good.


























- That's good.






Where's the beautiful lady today?
Tonight, a beautiful lady behaves like a beautiful lady.





Okay.








All right, get in.





Ravic, you know you're a great driver.









That's it, okay.










Then we'll go to the most expensive restaurant, order caviar and champagne.





And you still find me beautiful.

















It's not their first time.
And not the last!
It's not that bad.








It's a good thing you're back in Paris, Ravik.
To a life where you're happy, working and flourishing. Well, see you soon.
























































Okay.
All right, Mr. Vodzek.


Your saver would have to be executed for murder.











If I go out with him, will it make him worse?

























Another night without light in a bad hotel.
















- Good morning, Mademoiselle Adou.
- Good morning, Albert.















Miss, you'd better turn off the lights when you leave the room.











What does he want?






































Nice voice.



Okay.


















What happened, darling?

















































That's good.






- Okay.




What kind of idiots have you been with for the last three months?


I don't need any confessions.





You finally said it, but first you had to poison the joy of the meeting.






























It's a good thing you came.








Music can play for hours, I can lie down and dream, don't get up to change records.


















What do you think I've been doing for the last three days?
























Then there came a man who needed me.

He needed me forever.









I know I have to break up with him, but I need time.




















- Okay, monsieur.
















- Okay, monsieur.

















- It's okay. - It's important.





























Cognac is the only good thing the French have.












































































I'm glad you're still coming on my call.



And you were pretty good until the last time you met me at Fuka's restaurant.

You don't have to do this - I'm not leaving.

























You need me, but you don't want to leave the other one.






















And don't forget it's just day one.






In expensive hotels, night porters don't ask questions.


This is my last chance to catch Haake.





















- I'm glad you don't have to.










Okay.


















You need to go home soon.





Okay, Joan.





































Okay.


This morning, the English ambassador to Berlin handed the German government an ultimatum, which says that if by 1 a.m.






- You don't have to do anything else?


I need to sleep, I'll come down to you later.


I gave up my room at "Waltlander's," Madame Fouvier gave me my old number...
Look... I can't talk about this right now, I need to sleep.














- What do you want?
- You need to go to Joan's right away.




No way! - You don't need light. Did you call a cab?







- Okay.








Okay.

































Okay.










































The only time someone really needed my skills was when I turned out to be useless, because nothing could be done.









You have to lie.
Tell me it's okay. I can't feel anything but pain anymore.








































Okay.






I was sleeping, you old fool, or I would've warned you.





















Okay.



- Okay.

















He was like a postcard, the most beautiful city in the world.












And the fact that there was a pigeon on the table could be a good treat.










(Fr.)...................................................... Okay, okay.
(Fr. ) Anything important?
















It's better to notify the other services.



















Schmidt was on his way to the U.S. Army train, a large hotel on the wheels for the military on mission, military officials and wives of the military, displaced persons and diplomats.









(his............................................................... No, I'd rather do it myself.












Cup D, free. But reserved for an important face.










It's good to see you with us, sir.






































But what could be more important?


You have to be a magician.
We need to turn 1,500 calories into a huge amount of food.











- Unless you're an important person.
What's so important about German?








Good night.


There he is. First German.



Maybe he's a good man.





What do you want?














Okay, madam... or mademoiselle?





















Nothing personal, but... who needs to say anything to find something to eat?







For better understanding.

















- All the passengers in the car are under arrest. You'd better start packing.


The biggest ghost town.
The empty shells, crumbled and destroyed... by the bombs of the Allied forces according to a methodical plan, the plan to wipe the city from the face of the earth as an important bulwark of the enemy. Still, there are some places left.








There were modern features in this old city.
For example, architecture is a new line, a new form, created by methods of warfare in the twentieth century.
The destruction was all mixed up with the old style.
But there was more than material loss - loss of human dignity.

















There was no city more important than Frankfurt.




















































































Gentlemen, everything is fine here.
The occupation is good. I don't have a definite opinion.




His knowledge of people left much to be desired.












It's an honor, Dr. Bernhardt.













- That you're ready to talk to anyone.





















Let me explain. There are four people of different nationalities outside who are unable to unite. Maybe there's only one thing that's disgusting about Otto Franzen.

Every day, as nations remain divided, the enemy feels more freedom, becomes stronger and stronger.





Okay, I'll try.















Beautiful Maysen porcelain.

You want a good leather belt, Lieutenant?









































- We need to help.









They're not ready to meet you.































I'd be happy to avoid a plea.































- It's okay.






















I'm very happy.
It'll be very good for you if you bring her back. Don't... don't talk to me like that.








































We've got a lot of places to look around.








You're a better detective than me.
And much prettier.


Someone important.


















(his............................................................... Who's gonna ask the question first?







He knows better than that.


(his............................................................... She's home. (his............................................................... With your best friend.




















It's very important!






















- You can report the enemy to management and save the life of a very important man.

Maybe I should talk to Colonel Jones.
















It's part of the old town. They call her Römer.
































It's not very good for the allies, but very good for us.























But I know something better than you.





























(his............................................................... Beautiful loyalty, making yourself die here!

Trueness to something far more important than me.















I wonder... is she as important to you as your plan?
















































Important years.








- Bernhardt first.











You need me.
I'll serve you well.






















- Okay.


Okay.
Good night.






Are you sure you need her?





We need to alternate.
Then let me be the first.

- Perro! - Yeah? - We'll change in an hour, okay?




I'm first.








Why did he insist on being the first?
The first of all of us.






















Last call is yours.
You'd better get some sleep. - Look...


I'd better get back to calorie count.






Good night.
Good night, Lindley.















Less than four years of rain, the wind and the sun left behind a dull, colourless dead city.

Berlin, the world capital, revolved around the Reichscancellery, the leader who said from the balcony, "This is the last of the millenniums."

I wish.




There was one of the most beautiful places in Europe.










We need to say goodbye.



- Thank you very much.
We need to stick together.






I don't need protection. - Something wrong?








It's a good thing.






I'm handling the addresses a little better.



















Some 36 hours ago, I was down there, crossing the hall on my way to work, and I didn't touch anyone, and I was looking forward to the family's first vacation in so many years.
36 hours ago, I was a decent, respectable, law-abiding citizen with a wife and child, and a good job.
It's only 36 hours ago for big hours.








- Good morning, Betty.
- Good morning, Mr. Straund.


We will now attend an exhibition on the latest developments in the areas covered by the publications of the Genot Publications Corporation.








































































Oh, hello, darling. Yes.




















All right, sweetheart, half-first at Van Bart. Yeah? Goodbye.





He needs specific ideas.






Did you explain to the others what we needed?

Not just a promotion, Steve, we need dynamic growth.








I suggest we launch a prize contest for the best subscriptions on the theme, "How can we keep peace in the world?" I don't know.






A new item called "Discovery of the Week".







Smashing bad news is exactly what we don't need.














Good job.




















Seven years ago, I was an assistant editor at "Willing's Journal" and a happy man.








Was it better to stay in Virginia and get $50 a week?












Just cleaning up, darling.




























If I hadn't been up to my ass in debt, I'd have told Genoth to pick him up 30,000 and buy himself a new watch.























I have to go.

















You know, after what you said this morning, I thought we had a lot in common.
















And one last piece of evidence: the reservation, the champagne, it's all right.







Not on the honeymoon, darling. I know.








A real, happy family.

The boy needs a father. Someone who's gonna teach him how to play football, make models of planes?
But I'm telling you, honey, it's gonna be different now.


To the happiest honeymoon ever, Mrs Stroud.


I need you to offer me something new.




Mr. Straund, Mr. Genot is on line one.








It's all set for the next two weeks. What?

Yeah, I'd love to be able to say goodbye to you before I go.














I suspect there's more behind her.






And when the general pattern is ready, it's not hard to know where to look.








































I don't need them, I don't need six seconds.


- Very good, thank you.










Five-to-one that your crystal ball has not yet received its last report.








Well, if you think it's so important, I'll take a look.









Bartender, two more big Stinger and this time with mint liquor.





















You'd better bring two more triples.


























































- He doesn't want her.
- Yes, you do.









What did we need?



































Good to see you, George.









We're Randolph Jefferson, ma'am, and we're gonna fight the Yankees until the last drop of Burbon comes out.





Okay.

- No, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay Nice to meet you, my dear.


















































Okay, just hurry up.


Hello, darling.
I'm so glad you didn't stay the night.
I'm saying I'm really glad you didn't have to sleep there.


I've met a lot of new unusual people.









You mean from new, unusual people?
Yes. And who's this new acquaintance?















































You're not the first person in this situation.




























Listen to me, darling.












But, honey, I had a thousand things to do.


Forgive me, darling.


































But George, it's very important.














No, we're not interested in her, we need him.















- Good morning, Mr. Genot.
- Good morning, Tom.








Okay. Are you sure you don't know this Randolph guy?









- Good morning, Mr. Genot.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mr. Hagen. - Good morning.



- You talk to him first.








It was worth more to my wife.








It's not that bad, George.



We need results.










There's still a little bit left in the old bottle, use it.

I need a vacation.



New people, new customs.














Anyway, you're a secular couple who showed up to freshen up early in the morning.

We'll give you new information as we get here.


Wouldn't it be better to send someone more suitable?





- It's a big territory.







But don't forget we need him, not her.








Girl, I've been trying to call Butterfield 8-35-97 all morning.


















Your last chance was on West Patrick's day.














Okay. Way to go.























Clothes are a single-bore gray suit of good cover, blue tie.













Okay, stay there until the bartender shows up.






















I'll send him to talk to Patterson. Okay.













- Good morning, young lady. - Get out of here.








I think you're the one who peer-reviewed my exhibit at the forty-first?








This one's from Ralph, my first husband.



































































- New key.


In an analysis program, "It could happen to you," we broadcast every time from a new city in the United States.


















































We'll put a large-scale reproduction in the afternoon edition.















































The maid found her this morning and called Steve.














I called his house. We talked about half the first one.



































































All right.

Thank you so much for letting me use the phone. Here's five cents.




















What do you want with this guy?



























































Well, it doesn't matter.







Given the circumstances, don't you think I'll have it more secure?

Now I need to find a cab driver.

















Playboy, catchers, tongue hangs well, I'm almost ready to believe that this is my fourth husband, Mike.







Hi, honey, I knew you were coming.





In my office, darling.










Honey, it's a very long story.











































Okay, Steve.


































































- Nice to meet you.

























- It's better than killing you.



















She obviously had a big circle of acquaintances.


























































































































Earl saw her this morning.























































Mike, honey.


















































It's very important.







































Rom, you're very bad, you don't have to make it.



















Everything's ready for you.


























That's better.


















You took the last one?




























- We need whoever did this.


It's not very beautiful.



































































































Not bad anymore.







































She's supposed to be good, and Marty?

Brunette, I bet it's Madonna's face.






























Mario is my dear friend, I'm so sorry.




















You first.








































































Old turkey.




Right. Big oak.










This isn't a prison, it's an old-fashioned public service.






















- Okay.

Big guy.

























You go your way, I go mine.























































Okay, listen.















He needs cigars, he can make money.






































First time?
First time here?












The best people.
- Okay.



























I need the tenants of that building.
- Okay.













Nothing important.






















But you made me a good offer.




That's not good.












































Marty, dinner's ready.































I loved you the most because you're my first.


















She's kind and beautiful.
If anyone says anything bad about her, I'm gonna have to kill him.







You're very bad.
- Okay.
























Is that good?



















I need Tony, Mama.



















You're a big boy now.


















It would be better if she cried only for one of you.



















You promised me that all I had to do was find her.






That bad?














I need money, 200.






He needs to get away, and... light!












We need alcohol.






Leave me alone, be a good boy.





Honey, do you really want to help?









Have a nice day.




















I'm glad you killed him, Martin.



He wasn't that bad.












Big order.








Okay, Martin.













Beautiful, isn't it?



Fatty carcasses with a lot of money and scarce jewels... think the pebbles make them more beautiful and they get out of their skin to hold them, just as time is as fast as their old ones.
















He thinks it's all a big game.


The worse it gets, the cooler it looks.


We're in the big city, and we have to sit and wait.








- Not in the morning.























































At 2:30 a.m., in a 54th Street car, one of the men with gunshot wounds received medical treatment.





I assume you have a great reputation in your country, but you don't have a license to practice here.



























We need money.





























Very nice.





















































We gave him a big dose.
You, I see, you don't need it.








Idiot! When was the last time you visited him?























I knew nothing good would come from this...










But Tony said that Rom really needed her.
















We need money and fast.






Now I need them.
































We'll be happy together.



Don't, honey.















You don't need this, I came alone.

It's too bad.







Nice place.






























































This G0rl is so small.











































































- She starts first.















I'm gonna beat you up.

























































He looks like a big strawberry.


























Okay...





























- It's a big one.










One morning, he tortured me.



































- Okay. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm gonna go.





















Okay, then speed up.




































So, what's new here?




















































- Okay, and you?








- Are you happy?












































- Spa, because it's good.







We're gonna do it. (Chuckles) (Chuckles) We're gonna do it. (Chuckles) We're gonna do it. (Chuckles) We're gonna do it.














"When they find new ones, they go on drinking, until they appear before God. " — Ion.

















And hugging us. What's the new school supposed to be?
















"In the early morning, we'll go to the vineyards, P0 (M0TRIM, RD) (TIPD (TIPD) (PY VINOGRENDY P03D), Ra (Krulpie (P.O.S. R., R) (P.O.D.
















































































Well, I'll go wake him up if that's what you want.
Life isn't like that.
You're very mip, darling!







- I bought a pack this morning.

























Nice breasts.
But not as good as mine...


Maybe it's for the best...






It's not okay when your neves kick your ass.


















- And you, darling?
















































- Of course, darling!














- Very good.























Okay, I'll help you.





























- I'm on my way, darling!

















It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it. It's good to see it.




- What's up? It's better to go. - 0, yes!




- Honey, you're amazing.


















No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,




- You're new, aren't you?


I'm new to them.










Give me a pee! There's gonna be less popposies.















"Bo swims every morning." "I'd like that, too."

















































- Okay, here we go.








































We need a baby midwife.


We have to go on things, or we'll sing at the reef!
And I went through it, but it was worse.




- And poop in. - It's okay? - Yeah, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's
- Yeah, it's very good.






























There's no need for any other information.




Yeah, we are.


























It's like an old moldy "rockfort" swallowed by a pack of rats.

















You have to feed people first.
















They must be happy to see our compatriots.


This time it's not just "Very Important Persons."
This time it's "Really Important Persons."



Maybe someone's trying too hard to educate the civilian population and maybe someone who's rich in food learned that a pack of cigarettes can give more than 20 smokes.






















Nice mouse.
The best.

Are you ready?


- Good to see you, General.









He's a bright little group!




































































Old songs.












We got a crazy old laundry.











No, no! I want a clock round, a very big, beautiful face.

All right, let's take a look in the other box.







A little cupid for your wife?
I don't need trinkets.






















They're beautiful!























You Germans need to heal your conscience.

Now I have a new Fuhrer. You!






















What do you want?





















Office! That's why we're never ready to start a war.











Bye, honey.


















The tanks next to him were the first to enter Berlin.











One part of it turned out to be a big camera with soft walls, and the other part was a dead woman.





Two big cement things are zoo bunkers, huge dots.


















At least they don't need to worry about the windows here.




























You know, you're a cute little strudel.

I saw her first!





Sweet Fraulein, you love American soldiers, that's for sure!





























































A thousand small edges.
Come on, look at my little music box tonight.








Do you like my first edition?















They say she was juggling with important Nazis.




She picked up an important score.
Who? All I know is that big shot stands up for her.










What do you want?
































- 3-4, but this one's the best.

























But there's a new desire for life.






















You're putting blinds on us so we can only see what you need.


























Last time they tried to shut my mouth with a mink coat, I didn't calm down until the president of that ship's company went to jail, even though I earned pneumonia that winter.












Baseball and less mustra is what he needs.








- She wants me?






















- Yes. I need your help.
I need to know more about Fraulein von Schlutov...





Yeah? I asked this morning, said it went to Nuremberg.



- Nothing important.




- Ma'am, it's all set.


















Was he an important member of the party?












- I don't want her head.

I need his head.










So to catch him, you have to keep an eye on her house.








As long as it takes.


























- Yeah? Because of the new wall painting.

Very nice.

Last defense of Custer.




















You know better than I do.






































Well, I have to go.









We need to remember what these people have been through.



If you want to know what to look like, don't listen to women.





Who needs perfume?


Just for corn. I'm glad to hear that.


To be so rude, you have to feel completely safe.

There's a very important man behind her.

















In the morning, I'll ask him again.




You don't need permission?
























- All right, let's go to "O."





















Sometimes he throws you on the road, turns you into a tree, breaks wings, and loses the beautiful ideals you brought home.

















I worked on an important subcommittee, there were five of us, he was a democrat from the south.






























































Dear Congressman, you didn't burn down the shelter.











- We need to pull ourselves together. - Can we?
It's best we don't see each other again.






Miss Frost, Congressman, postman, darling, I'll go crazy knowing you're here, and we can't see each other.
You have to be strong!









Can you imagine how good a feeder he is?

I don't even know your name, dear Congressman.






Good morning...












There's no better picture.







Okay.










- Okay, okay.





Yes, thank you very much.

























- Good morning.
Good morning.



















Johnny, honey, what happened?























Good guy.
















There's so little time to say.




















It's better than losing your head.



























Yes! I can imagine you going to Iowa in blue jeans with a car with a hay to an old mill.








A very important question!













Thank you very much, but don't.

- We have a building in the morning.












It's okay.






Thank you very much.
Good day, gentlemen.
























I wanted to be so beautiful on our last night, and I look awful!









It was so beautiful on the bike.


















You don't have to go into that hole.



They were beautiful illusions,






Like new...



They make beautiful souvenirs.
Take my beautiful illusions.




- Congress needs to investigate this.






I'm so happy, I feel like I'm in heaven.



It's not bad, but suddenly it gets scary.




To you, my beautiful boat.

But you're beautiful, you're funny, and you're good to me.

I'm not that good.




Like new...



They make beautiful souvenirs.
Take my beautiful illusions.


























Isn't he beautiful?


Yeah, he's not pretty, but he's beautiful.

This is our last night.



















What does he want? I don't know.










It's so good here.
I have to go!





Okay.













By night the stars are big and bright














- My old election song.























Beautiful hat!
























- Good.



- It's better than that, sir.
Captain, your record is as good as any soldier in this town.

I know you were the first ten to cross the Remagen Bridge.























Spray with renewed strength to Fraulein von Schlutov, so that everyone can see it. It's an order.










Very nice.




Okay, I'm gonna go.



















































We need the same man.





With such a dark, business face, but luckily, I was wearing the last pair of silk stockings.
He's a good guy.


He came here, he felt so bad, he felt so sorry for you.
























But it doesn't matter.























I'm kind of glad you took off the blinds and started wandering by yourself.


















Okay. I'll put it here.




Gentlemen, I have been informed that there will be no flights until tomorrow morning.

I'm sorry, Miss Frost, we have to wait until the fog rises.






And there will be a new spring on Berlin's ruins!



















































He's so cute.

























Very nice, but what about my head?





You need someone to marry you.



You need someone respectable-- senator, Supreme Court judge. Maybe someone from the Smithsonian.
I know who I want.






















































Okay, we'll take care of it.

I need my bike.
I'm supposed to be there in the morning, or I'm gonna lose this job.












But they're not new.
Not all of them. Two brand-new.




Can't we just have a little more?
They're not new anymore.
Not new. All right, take them.













Today is the thirty-first.













You'll start tomorrow morning.





- How'd it go? - Okay.






See how big it is?






















- Yeah, the last door.






Your son will get out of bed before the first leaf falls.















Some woman... you could spend better money.
















- Is the cap ready?
































See, Richie, to do this job, you have to be smart, you have to have a good eye and speed. That's it.
Ready. Here we go.















































We need a social program. I don't know.





I need to talk to you.





I need to find him.







They don't waste time. We'll go there first thing tomorrow.














Good night.







Okay, we have to split up. It could be taken apart.

No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,






It's just vegetables, but we don't need them.













































































We need to find this old man!




























- Do you need a hairdresser? - Nope.
















Lord, we are your poor souls... calling for mercy. We endure trials... and follow the path of grief.











Prison is much worse. You know that for sure.













For the last time, I ask:










- Okay, but I'll go with you.
















You'd better go.





















































Okay?



We'll eat and be happy.













Who could want more?
I lost all of this. After the first day of work.

See why I need to find the bike?








Last door.












Dear boy, you are very ugly.
















Okay!










Now listen carefully: If you didn't find him in the morning, you'll never find him.









































This is the First House in Rome!













































You'd better go!






























































With this audience, we need to find what's stolen right in front of them.

























You set a good example for your son.


















It's been a rough day, but together it's beautiful.













Less than Macbeth and more.
And unhappy and happy.




Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,




The King was happy, Macbeth, to receive the news of your success.
































"I thought it was my duty to inform you of this, dear friend of my majesty, that you should not be deprived of your share of joy without knowing the greatness promised to you.








The great Glamis, the worthy Cavdor, the bigger of both of them!

Oh, darling,










When Duncan falls asleep, the hard road tired,

















♪ He's better than living ♪ ♪ he's dead like he's perfect ♪







My noble Banco, you've served us as well.
























































And, being bigger than you were, you'd be a husband and more a man.




































































Know about this case! No, I'd rather not know myself.











Sir, good morning!
Good morning, Lords.













































































































What the threads loosen in a bunch of worries, the death of the day, the price of hard work, the balsam of heartaches, the second shift at the meal of nature, and at the feast of great life, the best meal!









































No, it's better to be with the dead, to whom we have given peace and peace than in the eternal defect on the bed of torture.












So much patience in your nature that you are ready to let him down?




Now, if you're not the last man on the list of toms, tell me!
So many slaps and slaps, slaps and slaps, I saw in the white light that I would do anything to hurt him now.









This whole thing has to be done by night, Nevre away from the castle;


























Sweet Flins, run, run!







You are the best of all thugs;






Oh, yes, my lord! In the pit he lies, twenty wounds deep on his head; the last of them brings death.















I'm as happy as the last, as the first.
The best color of the country would have been gathered here, if our noble Banco had been present.


That's the truth, my dear friend.








































Please, don't talk to him; he's getting worse.



For the rest of the night and the better health of the King we wish.
Good night, all of you.




The sun's waking a little, the morning's arguing with the darkness.





I'm ready to know the worst now.





















































And if you hadn't been crying, it would have been a good sign that I'd have a new daddy soon.









I didn't do anything wrong.








Every morning he shall strike the sky, and the cry of the orphans, and the groaning of the poor widows, and the heaven shall cry out, Goodith, as if he had compassion for the grief of Scotland.



Screams, bleeds; each day brings new wounds.














Well? Okay.






Rejoice! We're ready for the show.

They are led by the good Siward, the best warrior among Christians.

But in the desert, I'd rather get through my words where no one can hear them.

They will bring pain to all honest people, but most of them belong to you.













All my little sweets?



How? Pretty little chicks and their squirrels in one raid?


I can't forget what was more important to me.








The troops are ready;







And those who are less hated by him call him a mad braver.



































What's new?












Drop the medicine to the dogs, and I don't need it.










































All the fragrances of Arabia won't break the fragrance of this little hand.
























Tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow... day from day to day, a small step up to the last letter in the book of life.








If you've lied, I'll hang you on the first bitch so that you're dead from hunger.












I'm gonna need Macbeth, or I'm gonna have a bloodless blade back in the blades.































I want to test the last one.

Who's gonna scream first "wait!" Damn you forever!
































































Licker's a bad thing, loosening character.


It's an hour later. Six o'clock in the morning.
Some children wake up at 8 a.m.
Some children wake up at 7 a.m.
Why are you waking up at 6:00 in the morning, baby?




"But, Paddy, darling, don't forget."





Come on, little Indian.











- Again with the new one?




















- Good morning, Lieutenant.






- Okay.













- Good morning, Lieutenant.








































Let a good man earn his money.































She was such a good girl.

- She's always been nice to me.










































Okay.










- I think most of it.
- Okay, Shaffer, you write this down.

Little sleeping pills.





Okay.

- Okay, I'm coming.





















It's not that bad.








Beautiful man.






- It's very important.


Take a better look.











Very beautiful.











She had to always look very fresh.






Okay, I think that's it, Doctor.








There's a thought in this lovely head that she can't be happy without being rich.
I don't think Gene would marry a man who doesn't have money-- a lot of money.


























She was found dead this morning.
























We were good friends.












- When was the last time you saw her?




What's so important?





















- It was my first fight.



























































- Okay.


- Beautiful girl, huh?

- Beautiful long legs.






First, the medical examiner called.









Just between you and me, you never told your fiancée that you and Miss Dexter were such good friends?








Okay.





Okay, but why did you lie about that?








- It's very good now.


Okay, what can you tell us about Mr. Niles' business?





Okay.





But in all the interrogation and investigation, you're probably the biggest liar I've ever met.
Okay.





- Okay.
Beautiful.





But I haven't had much success since I graduated from college.


But when it comes to important things, I never lie.



















Oh, good.




I don't lie about important things.


I'm not as bad as I say, Lieutenant.













































I suppose it's the best way to hold you.







And this man was my old, old friend...







- Do you still need me?





















- You haven't changed much, you're still beautiful.










And the third night, after the first full moon, the killer confesses.




You're very sweet.




I'd be happy if there were fewer.
You're cute.








There's a new murder story in the papers.





Don't bite your nails, honey.



Hey, honey.


We've got a new case.


You're about to get a good cold lunch.







- So early? - Listen, darling.




Well, okay, I'll reprimand him.

You have to give him a good stabbing belt.














I think it's better this way.


Listen, honey.































- I can't stay right now, honey.






They're obsessed with the world.















We have to go.
















We don't like this place, this beautiful city.















She was a good girl.

It was my fault, I couldn't get her a better life.







Other people were worse.



Big lights, theatres and furs. And nightclubs.





























- Okay.










- Okay.







Okay.










































Beautiful.











It was a big day in the Dexter case.

New evidence: none.













This briefcase he sold this morning... is a hot trail.


















































Okay, now you've done better than that, Jimmy.






















You're such a nice young man.





















She's my daughter from my first marriage.





Look, darling.








































































- That's good.

Oh, Frank, honey.


Oh, honey, I was so worried.
Oh, my darling, my darling.
















While you're making up a good story about what happened... tell us what really happened.









































Honey, that's the craziest thing I've ever heard.



- Frank, darling, please.








Where did you get the briefcase that was sold this morning?














You bought a ticket this morning.










- And the briefcase you sold this morning?

































Should I call the old doctor?










- This morning... the kids who were swimming in the East River found a dead body.




Monday morning.
This guy died between 3:00 and 6:00 a.m. the same morning.

























- All right, kid.


- Okay.


Good idea.



































- Oh, big...








A big man who looks like an acrobat?

I'll send Fowler and Constantino to you tomorrow morning.

Good night.





There's about half a million big people in New York.


































Okay.







Big deal.









- When was the last time you saw him?









Okay.



























Okay.







































You said your last lie.



Now you're gonna tell me what I want to know... or that's the last thing I'm gonna do in this department.






























Oh, okay, listen.




Okay.

Listen to me, Willie is a very good man.
He loves kids, he's cute.























Good girl.












































She always promised that this was the last time.












































They did most of the robberies.
















I wasn't that bad.













































All I need to do is stun you a little bit.


It's a huge beautiful city.


































I'd rather do it properly.


You need a plan.






A crowded bus is better for you than a taxi.





Okay.
































We don't need dead heroes.




Okay, Garzah, you're an excellent acrobat!







Tomorrow the headlines are gonna be a new story.











- Your breakfast's on the stop, darling.


- No, nothing. - Good morning, Dad.




Have you forgotten, darling?




He also needs to buy new shoes.


- He's growing, his shoes are getting small.








- Bye, darling.











You think the Olympic Mutual Insurance Company is gonna collapse if I don't go through her door every day at exactly 9:00 a.m.?











- When are you coming home, darling?



I need six minutes to get to the corner, Charlie picks me up at exactly 5:15.
To get home, it takes 32 minutes, plus time spent on traffic lights.











It sounds much better than the glamorousness of the Olympic Mutual Insurance Company...







Bye, darling.


Fine, just fine.
Good morning, John.
- Good morning, Mr. Forbes.
- Good morning, baby.

















- Good morning, Maggie.
- Good morning, Mr. Forbes.



A few good words and some money for a good job.








- Good job.



























































































It's not a good diamond, but it's my first engagement ring.






- You're a little man with a briefcase.
You come to work every morning and do what you're told.









If you were a nice guy, you'd cry a little bit with me.
You'd pity a girl whose first engagement ring was bought by a man stupid enough to steal, and stupid enough to get caught.

























I don't think we're leaving till morning.



Looks like you're not in very good shape.
I was going to go to South America this morning.


























That's a good idea.



If for some reason you want to get away from the world, the best thing you can do is go to a bar after noon.










Was the money so important to you?













- Do you need to go out for lunch?























Always happy to have a new job.















Look, Mac, do you want this job or not?






- That's nice.









I met a good man who wanted to help me, and there were problems right away.
- Are you saying I'm good?



Why do we always get attached to things that aren't so important?



- It must have been your first car.

- This is my first boat.






That's how you described yesterday's man, that any difference is just for the best.









- Stay out of my life, Mac. - Okay, Johnny.
And don't get me near my house.




Yeah, okay.
Thank you very much. External line.

















- Okay.



























All right, Johnny.









Much better, thanks, Maggie.







Much better, thank you.






















Really, Johnny, aren't you glad it ended so easily?












Okay. Then go home.














Mostly Denver, Colorado.


- Thank you, darling.














You have one of the best houses on the block. Safe.

































Thank you very much, Terry, until tomorrow.




















- Good morning, Mr. Forbes. - Good morning, Rachel.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Eileen.

- Okay.
- Have a good day, Maggie.







- Hey, Mona, good to see you.


















I'm glad you told me. I'll talk to him.
Everything else is okay?
















































I don't need your help, I don't even know you.





It's such a beautiful day.



He's coming out tomorrow, we need to plan something.








I thought I'd rather be here than on a hot and hot beach.








I think we need to get out of town.
























































I needed someone to talk to.







I just thought you should know. Thank you, Mona.










Isn't it better if she hears from me?













































- What happened, honey?













It was just a bad dream.









Better not, darling.














Just take good pictures, and you'll have good dreams.

It's gonna be okay.






He thinks you're the best man on Earth.










Why do you need him?




















Maybe it was better when she was.















- He needs me.





It doesn't matter. For something to end, it had to start.













John and Ted, two funny Bassbys, came across a terrible old puma.






You're right, darling.

















Okay, I'll be careful.












- Let's go to the last session.



Okay, Mom.






- You didn't say good night.
Good night, son.







Good night.
- Good night, Dad.



















































Yeah, okay, thanks.



























Smiley wasn't a bad person.




- He was a good guy.









But more importantly, I'm a lucky player.














We're gonna need to ask you some formal questions, so don't go anywhere until after the investigation.
- Okay. - Thank you so much for your cooperation.

You'd better fix that hole in the window.



It could've been a lot worse.
It's gonna be okay.





I need to talk about it, or I'm gonna go crazy.












































Maybe we should go to the D.A.'s office.

The first time he came, I kicked him out.





Reasons. They don't seem that important right now, do they?


































Man has always been a good husband, except for 24 hours,






Of course I do. Okay.












That's a lot better.







- Okay.



We really have to keep it for the posterity. Really, he's made of beautiful crystal, and I didn't want him to be incomplete.
From it, David Kentley drank his last drink.




Good Americans usually die young on the battlefield.





In less than eight hours, he'll be resting at the bottom of the lake.



And for the best.

The castle is too old.

I wish it worked.




I don't know, I think everyone's better or worse.


Always scared, from the first day of school.
























We're alive and happy to be alive.












- That's good.






























You have to point out that, in view of the recent events, I have been very careful about...













I just thought we'd better have dinner here, right here.
Is that a bad idea?




































Okay!












Oh, I don't see why you throw good money away.







He was fine, but the thing is, Mr. Kentley is coming to see these old books.











What do you have to do with the books?


I've got too much to do to get into the details, my dears.
























Oh. Mr. Cadell is awfully sweet.










- That's what matters.
- I'm glad you care.













Are we ready?
Ready as ever.







It wouldn't be a last-minute mess if you left my desk...










Good to see you.

- Have you had a lot going on lately?




- Did I come first?
















- I finally got him a good place.








- I'm honored.

Looks like a little goodbye party tonight.










Yeah, I thought you'd be happy to see her.






















- I knew I had good taste.


















- Thank you, okay.
- How's the new job?

I'm leading a boring column in a magazine about how to be beautiful.



- Oh. Is that a new painting?










- I'm ready to strangle you, Brandon.






We broke up a hundred years ago, and I'm engaged to his best friend.






- I think he's cuter.

















A. Small fonts, big words and bad sales.





Brandon was ready to sit at the teacher's feet for hours.









Mrs. Kentley doesn't care, and I invited my sister, Mrs. Atwater.

- It's good to be here, darling.



























We haven't seen much resemblance lately, my boy.




Janet, darling.












- Oh, nothing, it's a small cut.





My father used to drink a glass every morning at 11:00.









David's trouble is that he doesn't have to study, he's too smart.













































Beautiful fingers, strong, graceful.

These fingers will bring you great glory.
I think I'm a happy man today.





That's sweet.



- Your game's getting better, Philip.

















- I hope it's good.
Did you tell the good?
Oh. Little Kenneth Lawrence, how you've grown.



It's awful good to see you.


It's really good to see you, too.


- Good champagne.


A little party Mr. Kentley could watch his books at.










































- It's about a beautiful girl...







Speaking of skeletons, have you seen this new thing in Strand?


Okay.
I didn't like the new girl.






























- Oh, she's beautiful.










If I were you, I'd love to get on the pastette, calories, darling.






























It was Sunday morning late in the spring.




But that morning, his movements were a little tender.







I'm sorry, but I thought it was funny, you guys were so tight about the old chicken.











I had a problem getting a ticket to a new musical, what's it called?

Dear Mrs. Atwater, the cool turn of the story and a couple of seats in the front row are yours for murder.








You don't have to kill hotel servants with knives.
They're already walking through the blade of a knife, just like bird lovers, little kids, and scratchers.









It's not seven, we know it well, but still.






















Good and evil, bad and good were invented for middle minds, inferior people, because they need it.






















I think it's a good collection. I mean the first editions.












































Well, you and David were best friends, and now you're not, and I'm guilty of everything.






























































I think I'd rather...











- I could have predicted it this morning.



It's the first time I've noticed.



















I made it all there, in the living room, so good!












































- Okay, Rupert, I'll ask you.



















Thank you, when was the first?






One morning I saw you do it, remember, you're a good strangler.






- Okay, I didn't say.






Please, I'm sure you'll appreciate the first editions more than I do, Mr. Kentley.
- Thank you very much.














I'm a new woman, perfect as a watch.
It's not feminin' at all, darling.
Maybe, but I prefer femininity to good manners.






















- Okay.
Right down the hall and left, darling.






































Oh, yeah, a lot had to be done in the afternoon.









I think I heard David talking to Philip yesterday morning.









You can put the books back when you come clean in the morning.
I didn't think I should come in the morning.





- It's not a good time to talk to her.























I'm sure our dear boy will suddenly appear.


It's hardly a good time, but I'm very happy to talk to you.
Anyway, me, and David will be happy.













Good night, Mr. Kentley.




Say good night to Philip for us.
Mrs. Atwater, thank you so much for coming.

















Goodbye, everything's fine.

Come on, it's over. Yeah, I can't imagine better.
























No, not that. But it doesn't matter.
Nothing matters except that Mr. Brandon liked the party.



Keep drinking, and you'll have an even more stupid morning.










Yes, please give me the key to come clean tomorrow morning.


- Oh, good.





Have a good rest.








Better close the curtains.






























Come on, pour some more if you need to, but pull yourself together and keep your mouth shut.

























That's a good idea.





I have to think, the last time I remember, was when I was standing there.


















I'm very pleased to sit here with a nice cocktail.
I'm glad.




We need to pack the bags.

- Yeah, but we're quite ready.
- Yeah, we're all set.


Don't be in a hurry, Rupert.


































You're better at this than I am.



Or better yet, I'd invite him here.
































































Philip, you'll be much better off in the fresh air.












- Okay! Calm down.





I told you he'd understand, but you should have invited him here.



































Remember, you and I said that morals, good and evil, bad and good don't need a superhuman.





































We need to call a patrol.

















It's the same house as a lot of others. It's made of old rocks. There's no doubt there's a family of fishermen living in it.









Women worry about Grandpa and their brothers. And they're also thinking of a father who once didn't come back from the sea. It was the same morning back then.

I'm looking at my brothers. I always don't have a soul when they're at sea. I remember the morning we were waiting for Dad, and he never came back.














You have to pay the daykeepers, fix the nets, the boats. And all the expenses fall on the fishers' shoulders.

Makarona! Give me a big needle!
Get everything over here, there's so much to fix!







We're worse than donkeys. They never even look at our catch.









It's too expensive.


















What happened to Antonio? Antonio served in the army on a large land.



















You're still a kid.







But when the time comes, I will find a good husband.


















- Do you have any grief, Nikola? Mara, to feel happy...
...I need a lot.



















Shretza isn't as big as Katania.

























This morning in Achi Trezza, young men will have to deal with fish buyers.














Their cases have failed. Only the most useless fishermen are left to work. The best young fishermen were arrested with Antonio.



















Raymondo is always right. He's a royal son, beautiful as the sun itself. One year, a month and a day he travels through the light, speaking on a statue white horse............................







And I wanted to be the first person to bring you this good news.




Everyone's happy now, but Antonio's not happy about winning.

But do fishermen need these traders? Antonio's not thinking about it.


Antonio, you have to eat. What's so good about starving?





How is it that someone needs us?

Who needs us?








I think with my head, not with my feet. I'm not gonna do anything wrong. But we don't deserve to live in poverty without hope for a better life.







If we worked for our family, we'd be better off doing our job.





















With "friends" like that, it's worse than without them.




























Ready?




At 1, we need to be on Ospider Street.









Now we can buy everything we need.

From now on, we don't have to work for anyone anymore.


And then one day, I'm gonna want to get married.





I'm happy because I don't have to bend my back anymore to get people to profit from me.

















Was it too deep?


Now they need salt to maintain the fish.
It's a good investment, but it's gonna take a lot of money.







Yeah, we need to hurry.




We all work very hard, we have to sew bags and make nets.





I think you better go, your builders are waiting for you.


I wish you all the best, Mara.







Yes or no? I'll pick you up Sunday morning.

Let's spend this beautiful day together.
Nedda doesn't have to be looked after anymore.










It's lucky to be in the hands of such a beautiful lady. Be careful, Magnivalolo. Ladies hear you.






Why don't you wait until the weather changes for the better?











































Now we need to think about how to pay our debts.



As for Antonio and his brothers, they have not yet realized the great trouble that has come into their home.







































Don Salvatore, now we're poor again, so we don't deserve beautiful things.

No, this handkerchief is too beautiful for me.







Thank you very much, Don Salvatore.
Don Salvatore is a really good friend.
And he brought me such a beautiful handkerchief.







Can't you see that this fish is bad?











We're not the first day in trade either. We know how to tell bad goods from good.

















When a boat drowns, any wind is bad for it.
When you're hungry, you can't argue. You're ready to give up.


Bad weather, huh?








Good cigarettes.


They're good, aren't they?



















Now they're accusing it of bad weather.






What's so good about the money they paid us for the anchovies?





























Vanny, get me a towel, I need to wipe my brother.











Isn't it better to put the money in the box, 'cause then you're not gonna lose it?













The roof is in very poor condition, most of it needs repair.
So if the weather is good, I'll meet you there at 4:00 in the morning.









I'll be back soon, and then we'll be a happy family again.


There's a new trouble coming after the trouble.
Grandpa is very sick, he needs to be sent to St. Martha's Hospital.


The best thing to do is stay away from Magnivallo, although he usually doesn't walk the streets at such a late hour.




























I'm fine.

If you've decided to stay home, you won't be a good fisherman anymore.












- I'm glad you remembered me.

















I'm ready for hard work. And I have strong hands. I'm sorry I dared to tell you these things.



On behalf of all present, I would like to thank our noble Baroness! Thank you for coming to see how blessed our new boats are! These boats are gonna make 10 teams work!
And here in Achi Trezza, we live, good, hardworking workers!


One day Antonio went to see his old boat.



























Now you realize it was a bad idea!
I need to get four new teams together. Don't you want to sign up?






Lorenzo, put them all on Menicuccio's team. Okay, Antonio?
It's a good team. Sign up.













































I'm running a small newspaper, and the agency has drawn my attention to these articles.










- Thomas. Do people in a small town realize that I'm being slandered?

They're just like the big cities, they just have a sense of conscience.



Yeah, you need a father and a mother or... a husband.
Well, shall we dance now, darling?









He's very nice.










Okay. I'll try it another time.



Okay!




I need to talk to the dog guy.
I see. Tell him to contact me as soon as he gets back, okay?
It's very important. It's a matter of life and death.





Oh, I'm an old dog driver.









- You need help.
- I need peace.


We'd better get back to base if we can find her.




- But you're touching the wound! - It needs to be treated with iodine.

- I was trained in first aid...
- No, no. You don't have to.


Anyway, I'm much better.


You think that's a good use?










- It's a new trick.





"She's a sweet, gentle creature... used to hiding her true feelings... behind an ice wall."















Okay, if you want.



















I happen to know that he wrote good military correspondence.
The worse it's gone down so low.










First of all, it's not very good journalism.



When I got the behavior award, they didn't write a line about it... but the front page was how I wanted to scratch my eyes out... that little bastard, Badermeer girl.

They need freaks under all kinds of sutures.



Do you care what they say about me, Miss Farley?

- Does it matter to you, Sarah?






You're very good for that.









- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.






- The old estate at Trech Rogatin's.



Yes, sir, we'll miss the old estate.















- I'll be ready.




















Yes, Sarah, darling.









All right, gentlemen.

I fell in love at first sight.


I finally found someone I can be happy with.

















- Have you prepared a new article?









"She's a sweet, gentle creature... used to hiding her true feelings behind an ice wall."









Why? Throw it away, or I'll print a new release with his blood!
















Well, he doesn't work here anymore.





Okay.
























- Okay.

Good night.
















- Dear boy, I'll kiss you.

















Okay.


"And as a dedication to this romantic couple... you will hear a new recording of an old famous song...



- Yes, darling.





Mr. Tyler... I hope you don't attach any importance to my stupid reminder... of the rent for the last month.




A little splinter, a love brawl.

A little sun and a little shadow create the most beautiful day.



- It's great that you got a million.


























































Okay, just tell her her husband's gonna get married.


Guys, I don't know what permits you need, but they don't give you permission here.















It's all over the front page.










I'm sorry, darling, and I forgive you.



You must be embarrassed, my dear.







Don't yell, darling.
You don't have to fight in public.


































































Beautiful.
It's an honor you picked us out of all Farley's stores.





















There's a lot of possibilities here.






































- That's a good conclusion.





















Honey.

- This is your last chance to say no.


Well, honey, you could introduce me.




He's going straight home now, isn't he, honey?











- Yes, darling.








Mrs. Whitson, this is a great party.


Honey, you look excited.




The old man's doing great.























She's called an old widow with a mountain bass.






She chews tobacco like her father, only better.














Okay, if you insist.




Now, if you're gonna be here like you're one of those assholes hiding behind an old pine.
He had to choose the big one, just like you would.
Okay. Just follow her.
Beautiful.







Not today, darling.
Good night.





Beautiful.














You're a good wife.





- Sure. I'm the new owner.

- Okay!









It's good, but it's not gonna work.
Why aren't you trying to crack me with old diamonds?








Okay?

Okay.


























Judging by this note, you're much worse than me.

- Okay.





Okay, darling.



Stop being grumpy, darling, and let's turn off the lights.






- But I love you, darling, and I have a legitimate right to do so.


Okay, okay. You win.
A signed statement that I'm not married to you. - Okay.
I'll sign it in the morning.


- There's still time until the last issue.
- But I need to see a lawyer.

- Okay.
- And without cheating, darling.














They say truck drivers always find places with good food.





We have to make it to the last issue of the paper.







Beautiful.





Just a little family argument.











I need it for my wife.























































































Honey, you have terrible manners.






You know, it could have been a lot worse.


A lot of girls would love to marry me.



















Don't be so hard on yourself, darling.

















- That's the last one.





- Is that better?






















Not so bad.






And now you can say that we are very, very happy.









People are better here.
























Very wise decision, darling.














































You're saying that this beautiful representative of American women... is a real flower, an adorable woman who represents...
















- Maybe. Or it'll make things worse.


A legitimate decision is better than what it is, isn't it?

















Your weak jaw, gallantity, when you gave me your jacket... and shared my last cigarette with me. And it suddenly stopped being funny, Tom.




- No, but he didn't publish the last article.







If he's in the office, I'll bring him some good news. Don't go.















So, Mr. Tyler. I'm sure you agree that... you could hardly forget an event as important as your marriage.
- Do you have a good memory?
- I have a good memory, Mr. Prosecutor.
































I believe that the question of whether the plaintiff &apos; s memory is good... is of great importance in the present case.













- Okay, I wanted to stay with her...




















- Was he there the next morning when you brought your mistress breakfast?





















You deserve a lot of respect for your condescension, Mrs Tyler.
























But even when he was jealous, he was so cute.



















My line of conduct has always been to achieve reconciliation in the interest of the parties, and I'm also an old-fashioned sentimental narcissist.



- You have a beautiful marriage.







Just keep up the good manners and don't raise your voice.
Okay, where did we get married?












Your Honor, we are prepared to admit that perhaps Mr. Tyler has actually married Miss Farley.

- Most of the routine questions for Farley's business. - What?






- I don't need your help!










Maybe it's a little reckless, my dear? - It's rash? - No, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay

















































- You called it right the first time. - Thank you.

- In the morning, Barrett.




















Tom, I'm so glad you didn't agree to an nullification.









We'll get married again and again so you'll be happy.
That's a great idea.
And make the kids happy.

























Have you had any visitors lately?




































- It's worse than robbing a bank.


Tell Matty we're gonna get her boyfriend out of jail for the first big money.

- Okay, I'll definitely tell her.


Hey, big brother, stay sober.








Kichi, you're gonna take care of the parking lot, okay?




















We need a thousand dollars.













































Okay.








You should be happy now.








- Is that the best you could send?



Hey, it's good to see you, Matty.

It's a good thing he didn't destroy anything before we got here.
This guy was driving so I was ready to jump.

Bowie, you better fix the tire and check the car.



































Okay, don't.


Okay.






With a beautiful company, you ran away.






He's a little wild, but T-Dab's calm.




















You know, lawyers have to pay.





I'd like to go to New Orleans, or maybe Mexico.
Chicomow talks about Mexico like that, it must be a very good country.



It's a great way to get an excuse, to work with them.











- All set, Bowie?







And it takes money.
























He's the guy who's gonna get arrested first, believe me.




Okay?
Okay.




Well, okay.














Matty rented us a nice house in Gasherton.




























My first money.

























Good morning, Mr. Hagenheimer.
Good morning.


- Good morning.


My cold is better today.















And you better hurry up, or I'm gonna beat you.



























Turn this old one-eyed wreck to the right.
We need a lawyer here.

You're not okay?







No, it was the first guy.

Stop it, okay?






- The guy's still sick?






































They're as good as the women I've seen.











It's a small watch.

















I'm glad you got this...





















Why would you do that?




It's a very nice watch.





















































Okay.










Okay, Bowie.





























Do we really need witnesses?























You don't think very well about how I marry people?











I know someone who got a new car today.


Okay.



Is that a new car?




- Okay.



Okay.








Beautiful.


I have a lot of good friends there.


Oh, these old wrecks, where they've never been.








































All right, follow me.





You see, Alvin, happy customers are the best commercial ever.











Do you think it's expensive for us?






I think it's a good place.
We can do this, sweetheart.






Soon, when it's warmer, I'll take you to beautiful places.

















I saw him the first time.









































Bad dog takes food from anyone.
But you'll only take a good dog.






You'd better finish dressing up the tree.



























Hey, ready to get back to work?






















Yeah, I'll share it with you and the old T-Dub.


It takes three to pull this off, you're number three.







You better get rid of her.


Okay, I'll wait outside.
















Okay.










- You're my little old lady.

Look, I'm gonna tell Chicomow and the old T-Dab...









Now they need me.

They're ready and waiting.




















If I found a good woman, I'd take her to Missouri Hills.




















































You don't need me.












We'll buy new things.








Honey, I didn't mean to involve you in this.

















Sorry, there was a little trouble here while you were gone.







- Best plumber around.











Merry Christmas.




Merry Christmas.






Well, that's just great.
That's what I need.

I need other tools.











I'd like to go to the big city.











- What's cute?



- Honey.






It's a big river, isn't it?
The biggest one.


That would be nice.



It's good to wake up and see the sun for a change.
Good morning, darling.













- I'm glad you thought of us.
- Then I'm happy, too.

Honey, you're gonna get fat.

You could be as big as a barn wall, and I'd love that.


How would you like to have a good day, have dinner at some nice place?











The trees are so old that they have a beard.

























You and me, honey, with what we hid, we could live there like real people.




















It's not a good idea to use it.






It's a nice cool town.
There's a good business here.










- Okay.











- She's very sick if you need money...
- I don't want your money.







Okay.



Honey.




In the interest of the people of this state, it is established that Robert Mansfield, the husband of the informant, will be released at the earliest opportunity.




























Don't say that, honey.





Honey, try to get some sleep.














But tell me it's gonna work, honey.











It's okay now.





- A lot of good friends.



I'm old, and money makes an old man comfortable.


I believe that people need help while they can pay.
I marry people because there is hope that they will be happy.




















That's good.

Okay.

















She'll be glad to know you came back to see her.







Beautiful.


















Go away, you little tramp.









It's a lucky number, you're gonna win.



































I'm giving you money for the last time.

- Thank you very much, mister.




































































The streets are full of tramps ready to rip out a piece of bread from each other.



We need a real lucky guy here.




















Five thousand is a lot of money.


Better yet, 25,000.




















Now I'm an old wreck, but I'm still strong.
I'm ready to go now if anyone comes in.
I'd go alone, it's even better.
But to be alone, you need a strong temper, or you won't be mad for long.



Until nothing is found, everything is beautiful and noble.















Like my new shoes.

Good to see you.
















If I had the money, I would have paid you first.








































Okay, we're gonna need some gear:




But he's too old to come with us.















I'm ready to invest 200.
My last money.








We need $600.




Everyone who pulls a lucky number thanks the salesman.
I don't need a lottery ticket!











Look at this fat, beautiful room.


Hello, my dears, sweet money!






Didn't he say we needed $600?










We need a place where there's no trace, no surveyors, or anyone who's heard anything about gold mining in those places.






Nice shooting, huh?





They put a big boulder in the way, but the soldiers on the train have been waiting for them for a long time.











I'm glad to hear those bikes. It means that only a few have been there before us.






































And in the rest of the world, there was too little gold for a good catch.
Next time, call me before you spray the water. It's very valuable.
Sometimes even bigger than gold.









We're gonna have a rough walk tomorrow, so you'd better get some food.





I've got a couple of oatmeal chicks hanging out at the first drops of rain and hiding in the toilet at the sound of thunder.
















We need to get a little higher over there.









All we have to do is get him and take him to them.




You need to know how to cheer him up so he can smile at you.






The camp's better downstairs.









I thought all I had to do was find him, pick him up, put him in a bag and take him to the nearest bank.


























It's a great chance to get rid of the rods and leave us with our noses.








But it's better to divide the day's prey into three parts every night.




































Thousands of people, young and old, they worked as families.
Tonight, after work, we put together big bonfires, sit around and sing under the guitar.
Sometimes until morning.

And everyone was so good.










Then I'm gonna go to an expensive cafe and order whatever's on the menu. And if something's wrong, and even if it is, I'm gonna yell at the waiter and make him carry it back.






Let's decide how much we need. When we get this much, we're gonna get together and get out of here.

- Twenty-five thousand is good.


A thousand fifty, and even better than 75.




I need money and a lot of money.









That's what the wild places are like.







































- Look, it's a bad sign when you start mumbling under your nose.



- You're a good companion, aren't you?




- I know what you need.





























You're a good writer when you need to.






























They don't know anything about fingerprints, but they're not gonna hide from them.

I bet they'll find everyone who attacked that train.


You're the first person I've met in a long time.






























There's my donkeys over there, and I'm ready to join you, if you'll excuse me.

































We don't need you, even as a cook or dishwasher.

In other words, do yourself and us a favor. Get your stuff in the morning and leave.
Wherever we come from, with our best wishes.




But tomorrow morning, look, don't look around, okay?









That's why we decided to leave and look for something better.

































Good morning, buddy.








Next time, it's gonna come out of you through little round holes.









Sure, but we came first.








Consider the first:

If you start killing, how far are you willing to go?











That's a strong argument for first choice.




We're gonna have to talk to each other about this, kid.























So it's number one after all.











They need guns and ammo, not gold.




We have to take the fight.




























Throw your old iron in here.
And we'll go our way.

Okay. Okay.




They're worth at least 200 pesos.








The first round is behind us.

















It's an old Indian trick.







I don't think they're too bad actors for that.



I'm ready to kiss every one of them.








To tell you the truth, I was ready to give up.









"Dear Jim, I got your letter.



You'd better read it.





Now I can tell you that to me any wealth, no matter how great it is, will not pay off the pain of so long apart.
This year here, at home, it's especially nice.











And I'm gonna say it's gonna be less and less now.



Less than 40,000.






It's gonna take a week to knock down the mine and clean up the mountain.







I think she's the best woman I've ever known.
Stay calm, old man, I'll help you.
Looks like we're ready.





























They need something, but they never say it right away.






I'll be back before morning.




















- So they want you?






If they catch up on the gold, they might forget he's an expensive guest.

















































This is the first time we've been left without his help.












I thought how stupid that old ass was.










Don't be an idiot. It's not your first day.
Okay, for idiots like you, let's take his stuff and go straight north, and the old donkey stays with his nose.






























Apparently, we'd better split up tomorrow morning. Or even today.



I'm leaving first.



















But I have an answer for him.















I'll bury him first thing in the morning.






Shouldn't we leave him there?










But maybe you should have buried his clothes and left it to the ants and vultures.



That's good.













I think he came back in the morning to make sure I was dead.










It's a great skill, buddy.



























I need the money.



We need money, too.
I need a good mules driver, even two or three.
























You can get good money.




We can sell these donkeys for good money, too.






























A good doctor has to be born.
















It's better than writing to her.































At the very end of the street, as far away from the city as possible, is her home, the most beautiful house in Lowalton.
If you knew Rosa, you'd understand why she wanted the best house and as far away from screaming sawmills as possible.





















Why would I do that?



It's too small, Louis!










A tired doctor isn't good.


I remember... my first patient was a horse!









Last count!



















































































Sending a telegram to Moose is the best way to keep a secret in a small town.

We went fishing this morning and the doctor left for an emergency call...




That was the first time you said the same thing.














Another beautiful kid, Sorren.



No matter how often children are born, and how many more babies are born in the house is always a significant event.














I had to do something.


You have to give me a loan, I need plasma and penicillin, now!


Okay, okay...
















It's a good thing I didn't know about it then!





















Because you need me!



Beautiful, well-educated, educated girls.



The old dog can't learn new tricks.





It's much better now.










Are you feeling better?
I'm better.











It's one of the great things about living in a small town.






































Sounds like New Year's Eve!











































If I don't get out of here, I'd rather die.

























- Beautiful, big Tom Collins cocktail!





That's what the chicken in the dryer is for, isn't it?







One semester, an old professor from Australia gave a lecture.







People think a good family doctor can combine medicine and psychiatry.

Sometimes it's important to know what preceded the illness.


























I don't even need those cheap old curtains!




I don't need them next year, I might die next year!







It's the nearest big city!
Louis, I need 300-400 dollars!












At dinner, I was talking about an old professor.



You're not the best gardener.







I saw a new park being laid in Ashwood.


Here's the money you need.




















































- Thank you very much.







































































I missed something, something important.



Okay, then I'll be straight with you.











At least she's beautiful.
- No, just sweetheart.



























And you don't need me, I'm not good enough!























People certainly don't understand, at least most of them.









Are you happy?
I'm happy and I'm not happy.
The baby will make you happy.





Maybe it's not that bad.






The first thing they asked was, "How's Rosa?"










Beautiful party!
I'm glad Rosa did come.
And I'm glad.




















Nice to meet you.





♪ One and three ♪ ♪ Be careful ♪








































You're what I really need.











And look, here's the girl I need!










Let's go in the morning and go, Moose.




- Okay...




Good morning, Mrs. Molin!
Good morning, Mr. Latimer!







































We'd better change our plans.



















Not the best weather for flying.

It could be better up there.






































































Okay, okay.
Good morning.

You'd better...















Take the jug, I need water.








Remember your first patient was a horse?

And why should I lie in this shit when I could have everything you can buy for money, all the best!




























































I need a new coil.











She's wearing a new dress.


Yes, my love, it's beautiful.















Be cool, I won't be long.
You don't need me, Dad? - Nope.





Come on, darling. It's time for bed.




You're still a little boy, and he's a big boy.



- Good night, beautiful.
- Good night, boy.








- Good night, Dad.
- Good night, Grandma. - Good night.


He's interested in my project and it'll be good if he finances it.



That'd be better, asshole.
You're doing a good catawasia.






I'm sorry, I need your husband. - He's gone.





I'm in a hurry, I need a car right now.
All I needed was a beaver, look, I brought it. What can I tell you?






















You're still very beautiful.











































It doesn't matter.












Bye, darling. Bye, Tonino.
























































































- Ready?

Very good. Everybody's on fire.




I want to see you, talk. What's wrong with that?














There's one of your most beautiful letters.
- Read it to you? - Nope. It doesn't matter.















"There's one of your most beautiful letters." "I remember him in memory."









You have a bad face. You don't say.















I'm all set.
Cost, equipment, tariffs, insurance. And, uh, blueprints. - Oh, great.















Two rooms, one very large.










- Like I told you... I have some material. - Okay.







Women are afraid of a new one.








I hope you get the answer soon. - Very good.





He, my last hope, he was recommended to me by Montague, from Fiat.

I don't think it's wise to do it like this... with the first person I see.


We're fine, we're not accountable to anyone.
























How beautiful you are, how beautiful you are.
















He needs money to expand his business.







That's a good idea.





























I'm happy.

Yeah, I'm happy and I want to be like this. Lies.











































Yeah, it's ready.














♪ But, best of all, look around us ♪




- ♪ My dear love ♪ - ♪ Good afternoon ♪ - Good afternoon.

- It's not bad.




- How's it going? - Okay.

- Good afternoon. How are you? - Thank you, okay.
























- Again. - Okay.

It's a beautiful song, isn't it?
Is this your first visit to these places?









It's so good to be here all my life.




No, it's better "Ooh, Marie."


Rosa, what song do you want? I don't know, I don't remember, they're all good.



It's a very beautiful song.

























































As I said, it's very bad, but I couldn't give up such a good opportunity.






It came out suddenly, I have friends there, they told me about an important job.
- Okay. - All I have to do is wish you a happy journey and good luck.


If it wasn't for that, we could have started by now. - Stay calm.
































But you're a good son.



























Okay, I'm not gonna say that anymore.





It's gonna be beautiful clothes.

Look how beautiful she is.
And here on her belt, she has a beautiful blue ribbon.













I brought some beautiful tablecloths, look at them.

Thank you, I don't need them.








Look how beautiful she is.

Yeah, she's beautiful.




















What's wrong with that?
You've been weird lately, keeping an eye on me. I'm not hiding anything, you know?




I'm small and I can't explain it.



Don't hurt us.
What can I do to you?






































You make me teach you a good lesson. Then you learn what's good and what's bad.


















Okay.

I'm here. To ask you one last time, what do you want? I already told you that.


This time, I'll do anything.







What did I do wrong to suffer so much?





I want us to be happy.











That's better.













My savings, you've had enough for the first time. I'll write it later.




Tonino, darling.











You don't need the commissioner, you can go.

To our home, we don't need you here.















- It's all set.



He's in a different name, but it doesn't matter.












































- I don't even want her dead. - Miss. After the damage she's done to us.













New Year. The Day of the Wizards.
Everyone's happy these days, and I...

















"Dear, I've heard from you.






















Yes, darling.



































Okay.

























That day he sent me another one, with even greater threats. I was afraid...













I'll do anything.
































































Mr. Counselor, I owe you a great debt.
















































The Stamp of One of England's Best Jewelry Houses!






It's not just a beautiful trinket...














You should have thought before.


Okay! 18 shillings from a gentleman with a good heart!













I'm always responsive and ready to come to the rescue!





- Madame, fill this out: that's what the law requires.


































- Just say good old enemy.
- Okay.
- Hey, honey!






- He says he's an old enemy.







Honey, I think my accessories are quite normal size...













I'd rather escort you!
































They died together when the first bombs fell.
It's for the best.





And I was glad you didn't make it.
You didn't ruin her happy marriage!






- But it was before World War I!
- My darling, before the drill!
It was a beautiful spring day, but it wasn't a happy day for me.












A beautiful gift for a charming wife from a charming husband.




My dear Robert, the poor man can only satisfy his taste by selling it!



- Wait a minute, Arthur. - If you order her name on the fan, it'll cost her more.



















No, it's not better. It's her birthday of the 21st.








Okay. Ten pounds.





I'm glad you heard. Thank you!




I don't have a good memory for the dates.
I'm afraid names are no better...











It's not the first time I've seen you, and I hope it's not the last.









-...the first fashioners in London.

















What are you, I'm worried about myself: I really need you.





- I'm so worried my birthday is supposed to be the most beautiful!
- This day is the most important day in history.







Honey, that could be the secretary.

















They were happy here.
Sweetheart, you've painted the family idilla so touchingly.










Let the old scandals rest in peace!




Everything is ready for you, my lord.
Thank you. I can't get used to this weird new world...













- Leave us alone: we're very old friends!






















The secret is the most important thing in the wardrobe of an adventurer.








A beautiful, lonely woman?

























Yes, Mr. Graham told me when he came to see me this morning.

The tournament promises to be beautiful.






A very old club, strict rules...






And for the best.






- We didn't need a reason.






Auguste, dear lady. Auguste.







That cute stubborn...

Sweet Jimmy.












Mr. Whistler did me a big favor by introducing us.


- Okay.






I hope you're in good shape.










Believe me, you're better than most, but you try to seem worse.
If you try to be better, you're taken seriously if you pretend to be worse - the other way around.



- We could be big friends.

I think we're good friends-- please don't kill our friendship.

Lady Windermere! You'd do me a great favor by wearing a veil and wrapping yourself in a shawl: I'm not gonna be able to look at the enemy, not you!




























Okay, let's get started.
Are you ready?





I don't want to ruin a new hat just to find out who's gonna get hit first by Graham or Darlington.





Sweet lady, hurry to the crew, or your lovely hat's gonna get wet, and that's gonna break my heart!
I'll cure him by letting you buy me a new hat!















As you can see, buddy, I'll do anything for a beautiful woman.
And she's fucking beautiful...





Damn it, this family, but it's damn important for respectability.




It doesn't matter: she has the most beautiful figure - Mrs. Erlene, not her sister, of course.










Park is always beautiful, but it's getting old.








- Guinea, my darling.






























- Mrs. Erlene! Honey!








Coming, my dear Augustes! ..











You didn't have to lie.








The temptation was too great: you know, a man can resist anything except temptation...

Good morning, Lord Darlington.











She taught me to remember what others forget: the difference between bad and good.












My dear Margaret! It's so nice to meet you.
Agatha, tell my lady how happy you are to see her.






















It must be a beautiful place to have little kangaroos flying around.

















These shoes need to be stretched.


- Yeah, honey, I get it.
- Agatha, honey!














I assure you, honey, several times I had to pretend to be very sick and drink terrible mineral water... just to get my husband out of town.


Dear Duchess, please explain what you're talking about.
















She must have pulled a good amount of money out of someone, even though she came to London without a dime.













You're right, darling, it's just the simple ones crying, it's devastating for beautiful women.
- What a nice evening, wasn't it, sweetheart?

We need to go to the theater more often.







At the end of the season, people are willing to repeat anything.

I'll be glad, but I won't put my heart into my work.

All ready to celebrate?




- You'll take care of him in the morning.











- I'm glad you didn't listen to her.














We need a break, both of us.























You know what happens to little girls who can't wait to see their Christmas presents?
Don't worry, sweetheart, you're gonna get it right now, no delay.

He's beautiful, charming!













You're tired, you need to sleep...

- It's almost morning, let's go...

























She doesn't want anything else from me!















I had to beg on my knees to get new carpets!








Funny thing is, I'm sorry about the bad stuff, and you're sorry about the good stuff.






You promised me a new, decent life!





























































- Nice Countess!




Good to see you.

- It doesn't take much courage to accept an invitation!




The game is more important than morality, Lord Windermere.




It's so nice of you to invite me.


Your house is beautiful.











I didn't know you were coming, sweet lady.





















Only a very good woman could do such a stupid thing.




I need him now.






I loved you at first sight.








What they say about us is too important.














She's gonna be in your house all the time, and she's gonna be your best friend.
- You're right, sweetheart. You're cowards.


















- Did you leave the last three dances for Mr. Hopper?





Take care of my little chatter.
What beautiful things you say!

- Isn't this our dance, dear lady?



Everything worked out the best way.



Your wife accepted me today, I strengthened my position, and Lord Augustes is almost ready to marry.


- It's okay.








It's just a small, loving story about your close friendship with Augustus.
Arthur, everyone's just saying what a beautiful couple you and Mrs. Erlene are.










Sweet Agatha always says the right thing.











Sweet lady, let's dance.



















Please find out if he's in there, it's very important.










Okay, madam.
- I'm so glad I found you.




I know all this, and it's too good.














I know it's too good.


You don't have to ruin your beautiful, young life because of me.





Fight a world that doesn't need you where there's no place for you.







































- It's good for you, married!










- We were just discussing what a lovely evening it was.

- No, no, less!

I shouldn't have left my wife alone.




Probably from the excitement after her first ball.


I had important things to do. I'm leaving England tomorrow morning.




The worst thing about women is they always re-educate us.
We're always bad for them.
I think we're all good men.













- It's the best joke of the season!




































You'll do the master a great favor if you don't say there was another woman in the house.

- Good morning, Dawson.
- Good morning, my lord!










Okay.








I can't believe it's perfect!

I can't accept your sacrifice, it's too big.











Maybe because your hopes and your lives are more important than my own.







Most of all, she'd want you and Arthur to be happy.







I'm glad there are too many fogs and serious people in London!




















I've been looking for money hundreds of times...






I was so proud of my memory, and I forgot what happened this morning...









Besides, my dear, you should save your food cards.
How happy I would be to have my fan!
After Margaret left home that morning, she sent me a bouquet of white and red roses... and her fan in a perlamouth box.


Ready, my lord!





Honey!































































I need iodine.


















Last time: Those who stole coconuts, raise your hands.









It doesn't matter.


















I don't need your knife either.




















All the guys need it, not just me.































You first.





You're giving him a bad example.






































Gottfried needs them until he goes to bed.

















Here's your dad. He went home to his little girls.
















My hole is almost as big as Gothfrid's.

Look how small Sophus is.






If only you knew what a good question you asked.











Six o'clock in the morning.


















































Like that, big one.















She's sneaking into the store so no one can see how bad we're doing.




That's how we live, and Gottfried is worse.






































Don't be so cute all the time.






















































It's the best job in the world.

And on the day of my first paycheck, I'm gonna buy a whole van of bread.









Don't touch my bike!




















My best friend works around here.






Very generous of you, but I don't need any help.













Are they good people?






































I don't want to be late for work the first day.

































Is the stick ready?































I don't need the street anymore.





Be ready tomorrow night.







- Okay.




































You can come tomorrow at 7:00 a.m.












You're gonna make a good master because you like tools.









































































He's no worse than the others.



























Will you give me a little brother? 'Cause you promised me last year.

- Okay, what are we gonna do now?


















You're not letting me justify my salary, not even that small.












- And thank you very much.














If I could wait till morning, I could re-evaluate it.













- Thank you, honey, but are they very heavy for me?

- The biggest?






Dinner's ready, all you have to do is warm it up.
- Oh, thank you so much, Mary!

Good night!






How wonderful, darling.














No, I don't think so, honey.


























And, honey, you're not wearing a shirt yet, you want to catch a cold?


I'm not looking for gifts in this closet until Christmas morning.
I'm not gonna look in that closet until Christmas morning.




- Well, I don't know, Christmas, presents just feel good.
Christmas is wonderful, sweetheart, but don't expect great wonders.




You dream of something that can make you happy.
But you're probably gonna get a lot of disappointment instead.



I'll put it here so I don't forget about it in the morning.


No, honey, I told you, it's not for you.

- Dinner's ready?













Okay, darling.

Good night, my dear. Don't forget to feed the turtles and brush your teeth.

No, clean up, good night.



















I've been buying some beautiful copies for Guy.





Most fell in love at first sight, yelling, "Here it is!"



- Are you sure you're ready? Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,















Of course he's a good guy.











Only better, I guess.
Be nice to Carl when he comes by tomorrow.




Okay...
Good night, Mr. Ennis.
Good night.









- Turns out it's not what I need.













I'm gonna press a little button.

And I'm being fired from my job if you were a spy, you'd be getting shot by my baby wearing his kids' shoes, and you're a grown-up big man who didn't think we'd go back to little Butch.






Okay, what now?

- Oh, thank you very much, I...









Okay.


I need a sheep's wool suit, a cotton lining with a long sleeve, and I think...



Oh, no, I need something special size 56.

Madame, you'll see he'll be a bike, won't you?




Fisher and Lewis need to eat.

The salesman doesn't know what she wants until he sees it.
- And then it turns out she doesn't need it, you know?





Small shop spies have big ears.










- That's exactly what I need.





You see the happiest guy in New York, he wouldn't want to be president of the First National Bank.
















Well, first of all, the war erased five years of my life then when I came back, made a mistake listening to other people.









I looked the butcher in the eye and asked him to wrap up the biggest and most select piece.
Sorry I had a mink coat, I could have done the same steak changed my whole life it was too big for me alone and I invited his wife's buddy back then wasn't in town while he and I were sitting at the table telling me about work.





Oh, what's wrong with you, you don't believe in a happy ending?


It's better than looking for oil in Texas or coal in Kentucky.
God damn it, I need to re-engineer the Gimbles carpets.








If you look so happy, people will think we're newlyweds.








- Yes, darling.








Definitely the most beautiful tree I've ever seen!








I'm gonna go look for them in the morning.




Oh, you're so good.

Okay!


Honey, why don't you change into a gray suit for dinner?






I remember once when I was four, we moved in, mom threw away a lot of unnecessary stuff, and I was so afraid she was gonna throw it away, and I'm glad she didn't do it nicely when we took off the lights. Let's not tie them to knots.



I'm quite ready and I'm wearing a new tie. Well, Mr. Davis, I've long admired you from afar...



This is the last time I went shopping with a girl for Christmas.









- we met in Crowley this morning.






- We have a new phone.










































It's a good thing she talks about him like he's alive.






- Well, there's nothing better...
- There's nothing better...




Come here, darling.













Okay, start what do you like most about school?
















I'm not your son. And keep your old camera.





- Good night, Connie.







It didn't matter.
Maybe without telling him, it became important.




















He's a great guy. Let him be a kid. Stop turning him into like your dead husband.














Well, if that happens, you're gonna have a big problem with Timmy.




The baby's not happy if his mother's getting married again. It takes time for him to get used to it.

















- He's not a bad guy.
- Not bad.
I don't know why I was so bad.










A little electric train?






















If you're trying to get higher than you need a better chance of success, and if you really want something, you can get it.

Well, big guys like you shouldn't be desperate.





Even when I'm bad, my mom still leaves me a merry Christmas dinner!




Your flowers are so beautiful, Carl.





- Are you ready to order?









- No, I don't know, let me tell you how I feel if we get married, I don't like it. "If," Timmy means to me one or the other, he'll either be your son living in our house... and I'll be nice to him.







I'm so glad he called you Carl, I'm so glad.


On the first day of the new year







Our dinner goes under Moss Hart's new show, then we go home, see if Timmy's sleeping, then you and I sit down on the couch.






- What kind of gift is that, my dear?


- Said it wasn't for me... I didn't expect anything beautiful for Christmas.












- Oh, I'm sure you're happy.


It's a wonderful train, darling, and the doors are open, and there was a note.









- You little bastard!








But I told the lady at the store that it was for you... whatever she thought it was for a little girl.














And now I'm so happy... if I were a dog, I'd be wagging my tail.



I'll be right back, darling.
Merry Christmas, darling.








I can't take it from Tim and I can't take it from Steve. It's too expensive.




Okay.




Thank you, sweetheart.



















I'd rather do that for you. I think I'll catch him at the hotel after breakfast. I have something to talk to Mr Mason about. I'll go with you.


Ask Mr Mason if he'll come to us for lunch and help me pick up the train. I can't do that, honey. Grandma and Grandpa and Carl are coming.

It's much more comfortable being nice to Carl these days.


We have to make a gift and all the shops are closed for him. We have so many presents under the tree.












- Did he leave his new address?




He was leaving with a big Christmas present.


Said he'd have breakfast... with a guy who wouldn't want to be president of the First National Bank.


Thank you very much.













It was nice of you and all, but I can't let that happen.






I made lists when I was a kid, too.


Well, not all of them, but at least sometimes, so he's gonna realize that other than that train, it's the right thing to do.
It's interesting, it makes you dream about new places.














- Need a tie?

Thank you, mr. It's good that someone knows Christmas is everywhere.











I'm marrying Carl, January 1st.

Looks like he's not a bad guy.
Yeah, it's not bad.

I know what life will be like with him, calm and reliable when I think about it I get so good





You know that words are calm and reliable. It's not love at all. What do you want to do, hide in a cave, hide from anything that can touch you?
And if that's what I need.




All surprises, good and bad.


I knew I shouldn't have come here and met you again.











- So where is he, sweetheart?

Thank you so much. Hey, maybe there's skates like that?





'Cause not everyone who wears old clothes is vagrants... just like those who give 80-dollar trains to strangers' kids, not necessarily millionaires.
Just what I need a salt kit and pepper like I did without it!







Okay, and Carl doesn't have to worry about me anymore.



I wish you a quiet life.





- Connie, darling, happy Christmas.
- Merry Christmas.
- Thank you, darlings.

- Connie's so happy.
Last time he grew up at least two inches, that's right, and he's getting more and more Guy-like.


















Oh, of course, your young man, darling.



And we're so happy for you.
It's so sweet that he went and bought Timmy this wonderful train.



But he's been talking about Mr Mason all morning.
- How did you get away this morning...
















- Merry Christmas, darling.







Connie told us the news, we're very happy.












It's a very expensive gift if he doesn't know you with Timmy, it's really weird, but if he's just a good guy, what's weird about that?
Why are you so upset, darling?












Mrs. Ennis was sitting on a bench in the park this morning?



He's in big trouble, but you could help him.




- Put your coat on, darling.

- I'm coming with you. I don't think that's necessary.




About 9:00 a.m. in Central Park... Mr. Mervin Fisher was stunned with a tie and stole a $120 wallet, along with a silver set of salt and peppers for his aunt in Fleshing.

Excuse me, I thought it was gonna be a lot worse.





If I need a lawyer, I'll call you.
And if I need a cop comedian, I'll call you.






They checked four times even my ears. You should be happy to be here, not in prison.








I was in the park with Mr Mason from 8:00 to 9:00 a.m.
He gave his tie to a tramp in the form of a Christmas present a few minutes later, a little girl with roller skates and a balloon gave him a gift from that tramp.
It was a strawberry and a list girl, a little girl on roller skates and a balloon.



He's my fiancé. We're getting married on January 1st.

Are you going to get married on January 1st?

What were you doing in the park at 8:00 a.m. with this guy?





You see, the train arrived early in the morning.







Oh, I gave Mr Mason the new tie he's wearing.
This morning, after his gift was delivered...
Then tell me, where can I get a tie at 8:00 A.M. Christmas?











A guy without a job gives out Christmas presents to get Christmas gifts from a little girl with a balloon eating in a park with a seal and adopting a squirrel.











I need to earn a ticket to California.


I bet he'd be happy to give you a ticket to California or the moon to get rid of you.








No one gets hired between Christmas and New Year's.





Oh, honey, I don't think...



And eating at the restaurant is so expensive.
- We have a big turkey at home, Steve.

- I'd love to, but I can't.


















- I think we should open another bottle of wine.














If you get off the bill, it won't get any worse.
Besides, I need to pull myself together.






What's more, I don't want to live without you all these beautiful years. I felt good and bad, but you were with me.

Carl, just be happy with Connie like me and mom.


It's the happiest Christmas of my life.


That's so sweet, of course.


Steve, we wish you luck in your new job in California.
And we're very glad you're not alone at Christmas that you're having lunch with us.

That's so sweet.












Daddy, we better go out to the kitchen and get dessert. I don't think anyone's thinking about dessert right now.


Maybe I shouldn't say it in front of Carl and it'd be better if I went a long way and tried to catch Connie behind the kitchen stove?







Merry Christmas to you.













This train is broken, son. It's just a little breakdown. It's just been broken in the elevator.





















Try tomorrow morning.


I need to see Mr Crawley, please let me in.















Okay, thanks.



































It's not that bad, now let's go.




















Calm down, darling.











He's good.











Oh, why, honey?


It's too expensive.




He needs them so much.







And tell him I gave the train myself because I don't need it anymore.






The first side of Connie Ennis, being the second party's favourite Carl Davis for two long years, avoided any hint of marrying him.


After meeting a stranger, Connie Ennis, usually calm and balanced... becomes nervous, violent and evasive.







Divorce case, darling.





I won an important case a few days ago. It was in all the newspapers.



I had everything I needed. You know, I'm wondering what you're doing. I know if you were my wife.

But unfortunately, there's no way I can see any girl who would just love me if she was a mute, sloppy blonde in a dirty house and fed me canned beans.

It's been a long week for both of us and a terrible little train to accommodate enough dynamite and blow up a man's life anything that can change a life that wants to change a toy train, a tie, anything.



I'll wait five minutes and if you don't find a better company we can still have dinner.


- last room at the end of the corridor




There's a big company out here for lunch, so this is the air we're gonna close and clean up.
















Well, what does New Year's Eve look like, huh?













You've always been wrong about me. I have beautiful memories of my husband and my marriage to him. You want to take them away from me.


Well, if it makes you happy, you're a psychic!









Looks like everyone needs a poor blonde this year.



Isn't the little old train still around, huh?

- Go, I have to be ready.
- He's writing Happy New Year.
You write better and better and a few more hours before the new year.
















Gather up a young man. There's hangs to be made right now!


























































She's not gonna be that bad by tomorrow.

She needs help.






















But for Joan, it was the worst place in the world.


Okay, what brand?




























































Well... I work in a magazine.



















How kind of you, Mr....























You're already a big girl, just like your sister.
Yeah, I know. But this is the first time she's been home alone.
But this isn't the last time.




All right. Didn't you text her after we got here? Yes.













How's it going, darling?
Fine, thank you.




What's the matter, darling?










Bye, darling...




















It's wiser in the morning.























Okay.













Anyway, it's a good thing we're leaving before you get involved.























Okay.






And you still need pictures?
















I told you it would be better to talk to the patio.










I only need $50 of it.



























I need a hundred dollars, see you tomorrow.

My husband will write you a check in the morning if I can...




Not very well.


Not so bad.
It'd be a lot worse if it was your own money.
















If you have a bad dream, let it happen at home.















It's a bad decision, and I'm not gonna improve it.
If you need money so much, I'll give you 50.





But it's worth three times the price.

Okay, how much will you give me?










In the morning, everything will appear in a different light.



I brought the camera and I need the money for it.
$100, $50... I don't care!


The only thing I have to do is get the money by tomorrow morning!
Okay, lady, okay.






Thank you very much.




New throw.











Last bet paid.
We have a new player.










Come on, darlings.
Come on, darlings.













Good morning, Mrs. Booth.
Good morning...


Okay.


Can I use the old one?


- Okay.













Good morning, darling.
I'm glad you didn't leave.




























How's it going, darling?





Of course I'm happy.





Okay.











Okay, Joan...















You better give Ruth the good news.





Don't be stupid, darling.
It looks even better on you than it looks on me.

















































How kind of you to...









I knew you were very nice as soon as I saw you.






















You've lost your judgment, darling.



















Trust me, darling.




















Please, darling...




















Okay.






































At 5:45 a.m.?



How nice you are right now...

Calm, relaxed, tired. But like you said, nice fatigue.
This room is very nice in the morning.

What matters is what happens in the room.











I know what you need.


I think I'd better go.




























Where were you this morning at 5:00 a.m.?
Five o'clock this morning?


















And most of the day.



I don't care about heights.
It's better to lie in the sun or stick a steak.


Honey, are you worried about me?


Don't worry, casinos are exciting, but look, I'm just a Chicago provincial girl who found herself a new shiny toy.


Is that your new shiny toy?
It's not new, and it's certainly not radiant.





















I have a better idea.











Lake Mead is beautiful, but cold.

Those words, sweetheart, are grounds for divorce.





I wish you'd warned me.




Didn't I tell you, darling?

Okay, let's go back to Pelican.

Not today, darling.







Hello, darling.



























Not a good time for husbands.







All they have to do is get to the bed.




























Okay, Joan.


She needed help back then, and now.












Less important?
























- Okay.








If you forget we didn't have the first one.




Mostly... it was a great vacation.

Poor little sardine.

























Isn't that right, darling?
















I'll be back early in the morning.







It's a good thing one of them has brains.

Drive carefully, darling?



I'll chew good food, brush my teeth, and shave in the morning.
Any more recent instructions?

Bye, darling.



























Beautiful.
Beautiful.















Then, Las Vegas, I had the biggest win.

Playing bones don't matter how dressed you are.
My worst game was in Cleveland, I was wearing a white tie and a frack.















Okay.















Okay, okay.





























Hold on for the first time.



What do you want?



Big big guy with a mustache?

Attractive small size.










That's not good.












So, I'm ready to start working right now.





























Okay, you can start.









Then why do you need me?



















Beautiful.


All right, let's go.



I need more money.


































It was a very good deal, and Johnny barely kept her.
It could trigger a drop in bets and accidentally win when we're not ready.

Okay.
Okay.









My money's not good enough?
Don't mix women and poker, dear Mrs. Booth.





"Isn't my money good enough," she says.



If you come back here, you're gonna make a big mess.








We don't need extra eyes.
















What's good?






Okay, that's the way it's gonna go.




















Okay, let's work clean.



Remember, Charlie. The bet should be made at the very last moment.






It must be important.












Okay, try and call me back.








It's very important.











































"Happigel" comes first in advance of the entire hull.

















I would never, darling.










It's a very nasty job, sweetheart.






Okay.
Okay.






We're gonna have a little trip.














Okay, I'll tell you what I think.









Watch your manners, sweetheart.


And when I couldn't reach Joan, I got on the first train.






In any job, she only stayed until her first paycheck.




The last place I could track her was Shreveport.


Yeah, really, honey.
You're the girl I've always wanted.

My name is Charlie, honey.





You're very nice, but I'm afraid I'm not the right company today.







How much do you need, sweetheart?


























All right, let's go.




Okay.







You're not gonna get away with this, honey.










And she started working with Frankie for 10%, and that's the last thing I found out about her until, like, a month ago, one of the guys told me she was back in Chicago.












Okay.

















Joan, darling.
Dear Joan.

Poor little Joan.



We'll be together again, darling.















And then you'd be really happy, wouldn't you?
What else do you want?















I always knew it would end with the first day I saw you.






Joan, darling.
My sweet child.










Say it, darling.







Tell him, darling.







Okay, Ruth. Now that's enough.









Yeah, kill me, like you've always done since your first day.



















Okay.


In this state, she needs peace.







































That's not true what he said, darling.



You'd better go, Ruth.








Let's go to the window, darling.
To observe the coming of a new day.

Okay, Captain.








































































- Nice work, Mr Pascal.












- I don't want your lies.













































- Give me the last night.














- Okay...





























- That's better.






- We're old these years.






































In a small Norman town.




Very good, buddy.























































- They weren't bad.
- They weren't bad...








- People make bad wars.
If the Americans had come first, I'd be very happy.

































I'm only gonna make it worse.
- Do you think I'm beautiful?






First time.





























- Worse, I lost a friend.

Isn't that better?








- We'll be happy.



- That's it, darling.





































- It's funny this morning we didn't know each other and tonight we're alone in the room.





- How beautiful!

- First time?
- The first time I'm alone with a man in a room.











- What's good on the roof?


























- Good to see you.






- He's good, I'll tell you.


- Good morning, monsieur.


It's a beautiful day.



- It's always bad.
- This release may not be so good for our cause.




















- What a beautiful sister.



All you have to do is find a comfortable mattress.
- You need a lot of stuff.

I need everything.
- Be reasonable, darling.








- I'm ready to learn.

















- Okay.

- It's very beautiful.















Come on, darling, let's go.



- Monsieur insulted my best friend, from whom I envy, who has many wine factories.





















- It's gonna be okay, you'll see.




It's not gonna make us happier. Isn't that right, Gilbert?










































Okay, I won't insist... but it's a shame.
I was told about a good case:



It's a quiet and honest case.

















- It doesn't matter, I have a job.


- I'm glad.






- Good job?





- It's too beautiful.







Do you understand, darling?







- The important thing is we're gonna be together, huh, darling?
We'll find an affordable apartment and be happy.










He needs someone young and energetic.


Good prospects.
























- Is it good?






"Old thug, I'm sending you a young bastard."


















- Is that you, honey?

- I thought you'd be happy.







Look, there's gonna be more.




















































My job was no better.
After the last show, I changed into my old dress.























Oh, little Lesco, she left us, monsieur.






- Presenting a new collection.


- Okay, don't be late.



























- Love at first sight.



Oh, one very important lord, English lord.




We'll replace this stranger with even more beautiful.








































Okay, I'll leave you to it.



























But before I go, I want to see you for the last time.





















Aren't you happy at home with me?







I'm a bad girl, Robert.

To me, you're still a little Manon.


Maybe more.
But I'll never make you happy, so you better go.













You always thought it would take a lot of work. The times aren't right.








I'm very happy with you.












We needed an apartment.








- It's expensive, honey.
- Don't worry, honey, we got this.







There are better things.





You're gonna need friends there to get this stuff.






















Dear friend, let me introduce you to my older brother.

- Nice to meet you.

- Very good.







- I really like Manon. She's so beautiful.





























- Go, my dear brother.





















- I have to put on a big batch of penicillin next week.
























- Have you thought this through in your little head?


But I need him.
We both need him.





You won't have to work anymore.



I saw pictures of his factories, they're big.











- But we won't be happy.

















































Ready. But you'd better calm him down. He's gonna make a noise.

























But I need silence.


















Who always gave bad advice?
- Manon doesn't need advice.

To her, you were a burden, worse than a child.


You couldn't make her happy and it only hurt you.

- It's better for everyone, believe me.









That's better.















I think it's a good start.


- You're not feeling well right now, but it'll pass.


































- Please, I'm in first.




- It's full, it's worse than the subway.




























- Monsieur Pascal, hurry, time is expensive.











- I knew you were a good man.
- And an old fool.
















Honey.






Oh, Robert, I'm so happy.


On the contrary, we will show them that we can be happy.


Honey.
Honey, come on.





















Come on, darling.










































Think how happy we would be.

Much better.







It's okay.


- It's better by the water.




























It's gonna be good.



I'm happy now.































I remember thinking this was the first real vacation I've had with Howard over the years.




























Thank you very much.







Room's ready.






- Oh, good.











Remembering New Year's Eve nine years ago.
Are you happy?

- I said you're happy?






It doesn't matter.







- Happy New Year.
- Happy New Year.



- Happy New Year.
- Happy New Year.

Happy New Year, my dear.
Happy New Year, Howard.




- Happy New Year, Pat, darling.
- Happy New Year.
Very happy New Year.
# Should we forget our old friendship?

# We'll forget our old friendship














































It's good to see you again.








- Happy New Year.


Good night.






He seems very nice, I think.

Are they happy?











Okay, honey.













Wake up, darling.


- Happy New Year, Bates.

- Good night, Bates.
Happy New Year.

Good night, sweetheart.
Good night, Howard.
Ah, happy New Year.
Happy New Year.








Honey Steven, don't be mad at me.



























Thank you very much.





















Okay, yeah, I think I can.


























I'm glad I came.




- Dinner's almost ready.

























I hope this coffee works out the right way.

























I rewritten it from the book of Holsworthy to impress you. ( "The Last Summer of Forsythe" )




























We knew each other so well, all of a sudden, we didn't think these years were just in between.







It was new to me.

We were happy and... it seemed like it was gonna make everything okay.








It's very important.





- My report to the Ministry of Finance is due tomorrow.

Well, honey, what have you been up to?













I think it's called First Love.
















































- Thank you very much.










I think I'll continue in the morning, Miss Layton.
All right, Mr. Justin.






# First love and last love, my heart always knew you


# The first is the best love in the world


# First love and last, here's the only truth
# I recognized you at first sight






Good night, darling.


































- Thank you very much.












Good places?

Sit down, darling.








By the time we talk, Stratton, I believe that a flaw in the German mind is evident every time they get more power.


A crowd who can believe that lying big enough isn't a lie, it's the truth.







I'm sorry it came out this way, but I think you'd better know the truth.






And when you were sure for a long time that you had a happy and worthy marriage, the shock was even greater.







You'd better go.

- You'd better go, Stephen.






Good night, Stephen.
Good night.


- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning.




- Good morning, Mr. Stratton.






I'm on a personal matter and more important.


































Okay, you can love her, but you don't know her.

Our marriage was very successful until recently.




The kind with the big demands.

















Okay.










It was better.


















I'm not a very good person, Stephen.





That's all I need.
That's all I'm gonna need someday.















- Thank you, okay.

- Good morning, Mrs Justin.






- I feel like it's gonna be a beautiful day.


This is his first real vacation in these years and the first two days he'll spend without his job.



























- I'm glad you invited me earlier.









- Mostly.









I'm glad it happened in such a lovely place.



















This is the last chance we'll ever have.













You met her once on New Year's Eve.





When the new phone book came out after the war, I even looked for you in it.



You'd better put on your shirt.










You know, Steven, these days... we're closer and happier than usual.
I'm very happy.












You're very happy, aren't you, Stephen?
I think I should be happy.



- Do you need help?
























It's all set.





Was it hard this morning?




- We're very happy to see you again.

















Beautiful.





I'll let you know about the new state of affairs as soon as I can.


I think it's better to deal with me than Arnold.


"Dear Arnold..."
These new binoculars are extraordinary.









"I don't think it's necessary to remind you of a questionable reputation for this kind of business."
"I suppose you know me well enough to understand... that I will never allow any influence on me in this or any other matter and especially... in the financial aspect."




































I'm glad you're happy.















I need to talk to Professor Stratton.


He left this morning.

It's very important.









Thank you very much.








Honey.













I had to do something.







It doesn't matter what.




I'm sorry, Mrs. Justin, but I think you'd better face the facts.














- I called him at the university this morning.








































You're happy, aren't you?
Yeah, I'm happy.



So you're happy?




















- I have to go.

We... better say goodbye.


- Okay.






















Do you need something?






You see, Howard, in Switzerland, no matter what you decide and no matter how bad it looks, nothing happened.










Or even a lot of affection.










And you made me hate and despise myself, and I don't need you anymore.

I don't want anything from you.


















It's okay.





You better sit down.

It's okay.














































- Okay.




- Okay.





























Poor people should die early, they're better off.


























The doctor here is a wonderful man.




I'm fine.






















Oh, what beautiful flowers.

















I'm not a little girl anymore.







My dad's feeling worse.










Still, I'm ready for the worst.

























Best wishes to your father.







- Good morning.
- Good morning.





- I'd rather have tea.














































































They were talking about something important.
















How bad is it?










When I realized the patient had complications, I assumed... the worst.





























































Okay.





































Apparently, there's a doctor there, too, and it's about the head.











Thank you so much for coming.










- Okay.
The old wound has healed.








- Little fell asleep?































































































If your mother's condition is so bad, you have to assume the worst.
Worst?



If we start treatment now, he's gonna be okay.





You're calm because it's none of your business!
And this is my first child!












I thought you'd better explain yourself.


















My dad's really bad.






Good to see you.











Like the first time I came here.


































Please be happy.
Infinitely happy.
Maybe I'll be happy.

You'd better go home.



















You're always so calm.


































































So, is she happy?

He says Hacone is very beautiful under the snow. (* Japanese spa with hot springs........................................














- Is it that bad?



















We were a bad couple.





Can I see my little one?











































You're the one who said bad things about my baby!





























Okay.

























It's probably the new nurse.














If he was happy, maybe he'd be arrogant.






The papers are ready, Major.







- All right, Sergeant Major.






All right, Sergeant Major.

















So the Germans dropped a new secret weapon, right?



Sir, I'm gonna need some expert hypothesis, some advice on how to deal with this thing when it gets into our hands.
You need Sammy Rice.







Try and get him to meet Sammy tonight, okay?






















I'll pick him up. - Stay calm.













































Do you need this?







































- Okay, if you need me, do something. - I'll do it.







No, I have to go.


























You need eyes and eyes.





I don't feel any better about what the doctor says.


















- You think it's better?









- We need 10 shots per minute.










- Ready?

























- Good morning, Crowhurst.
- Good morning, sir.
Good morning, Mr. Rice.



Hi, honey.





Hello, darling?


- Really, darling?


Yes, darling.






The higher the person, the thinner the atmosphere and less resistance to air.
- Okay, darling.




- How much do you need?



In letters, darling.





I need a full analysis.
Sorry, honey.

Tea's ready. Goodbye.


















No, but I need you.
You're a big shot now.








Nice work.
Beautiful.
But I need three copies at once.





- Girls need to eat.






Good girl.



































Good morning, Lacomb.


Good morning.

- Good morning, Mr. Pinker.
Thank you, very well. - Great.




- Okay, come on. And a thick soup and a pint of Hollyster, please.








- Godshall is ready.


You know, we need a new deputy minister.














You had a good division when it all started.












Mayr needs a knight's rank?

- Then what do you want?

It's obvious that everyone needs something.












I want you to meet a very important person tonight.


Every Wednesday at Hickory, I have a very important meeting.



















But, honey, he doesn't know anything about us.



I keep kicking this leg, and when things go downhill, I like people around me to freak out, and I'd treat them like the last bastard.









You just take and do what you need to do.












How are you, darling?
Honey, this is Norval.

You need to meet.






How lucky we made it, darling.


















- Too old and lazy.










































And this, Mr. Minister, is one of our experiments to obtain new gas during the distillation process.










Very good.


Ah, good morning, gentlemen.






- That's the best we could get.




And this, Mr. Minister, is one of our experiments to obtain new gas during the distillation process.






It's better now.



- Is that you, darling?

I need to talk to Joe.



And this little monster is some kind of invention of yours, too?




So we should give her something to count.





















- Oh, thank you very much.
I wish you'd come up with a thing that would write good speeches.

Oh, that's even better.

Thank you very much, gentlemen.








- Hello, darling!
- Hello, Madeline, darling.












You'd be as good at it as anyone else, even better.


Sorry, honey.


I need a drink.






Honey.



























Nice to meet you, Mr. Rice.
I'm more than happy.










He came to consciousness for two minutes last night, and for a few seconds this morning.










Looks like a big flashlight.












We need to know what shouldn't be done with her.






Try to say it's very important.
























If you have something, let it be the best.




- Okay.








That's not good.


Okay.





He's been out of the woods lately.

































Unless, of course, this thing is too big.

You could build a photoelectric fuse in a slightly larger shell that would have worked when raised and wouldn't have been damaged if dropped.










































But, darling, it's Tuesday.



































It is a body that has been formally authorized by the Chamber to undertake consultations on all important scientific issues.

It's not worth saying that our opinion on Reeves' gun wasn't requested until the very last moment.















Okay.


























The largest mass of the horticulture is 4 pounds.


A big garden is the best puncture capacity, maximum interval.














After all, it's very important.








I don't think it's ready.
















Tea's ready.



I was calm, balanced, and undisturbed.



































































You need to decide if you want to be talked about for the rest of your life - how pathetic this guy is - or if you don't want to.
Last one, Mr. Rice.




























































Okay.









I'll try to be happy with the first one.


Because it's very important.








If the first one blows, we need someone to dig into the second one.




The first one is mine.


5 : 30 a.m.































I have a lot of experience with experimental fuses.
As Dick Stewart told me yesterday, you agreed with him that he would try first so that if you failed, you could have one shot at it.





Only, I think she needs a different approach.


I wish I could take a look at his notes.





















Well, okay.













The field is in perfect condition.

















I think I'd better pull the switch and watch.



Well, guys, unless there's a man inside with a burning match, it's okay, I think.














Thank you very much.



Okay.

















- It's all set.





- Ready?




- Okay.






- Good day, sir.


The sea isn't as calm as it is this morning.



















Wave if you can hear me, okay?














First of all, I'm gonna try to lock up a bomb in a strubcin, and then I'm gonna work as a key as Stuart.








Okay, first one's ready.


We need to get cleaned up.





It's done.







Ready, sir!






























So I have to decide what to do: hold the hull and unwrap the lid or hold the lid and unwrap the shell.
Three to one, you have to unwrap the lid.

























- You don't need anything else?



































I promise you, it's gonna be okay.








- Okay.
























- Okay.









We need results.



























We were willing to sell anything if there was a demand, and people could pay.



Very nice. What are they hoping for? No one knows the city, no one speaks a language that others understand, except for a broken German.
In general, the good guys are doing everything they can.
But Vienna looks as good as many other European cities.



Here he comes, happy as a lark.










































When was the last time you saw him?




Best friend I ever had.











It's the best thing that's ever happened to him.
What are you trying to say? He was the worst racketer I've ever had in this mess.


























Have you written anything lately?



Nice to meet you, sir. I've read a lot of your books.
I love good westerns.












A very good writer.







It's very important in times like these.




Thank you, Sergeant. This is our first opportunity to welcome an American writer.











Look, Mr. Martins, if you'd agreed to speak with us, we'd be happy to see you.

If you're ready to stay?




I know a good dentist.
I don't need a dentist, I just got hit.



























This is the story of a man who's punishing a sheriff chasing his best friend.





Nice to meet you.








I think best friend, except for you, of course.






I'm afraid the police meant more than that.




But you see, I'm Austrian, I need to be careful with the police.









































You don't have to talk to her, it'll only hurt her.


What's the point of a new autopsy?










You'd better think about yourself.

Sure. I'm so glad I met you.

I think it's a very good cover.

Major Calloway sends his best wishes, sir.

Tell the major I don't need him. Yeah, portier, order me a ticket to the Josephstadt Theatre for tonight.























- Okay.


























Said Harry asked him at the last minute.














































It's better not to get involved in these things.




















You need to tell this story to the police.




I should have listened to my wife, she said you didn't have any good in mind.









You didn't have to get involved.























Do you really need them?







All that matters is that he's dead.




Do you really need these letters?






























Miss Schmidt, are you ready?






Why do you need a doctor?







































































It didn't matter at all.
What should I tell you?


We need to find him.

















Good night, old man.









Yeah, he turned his head, and that's a good picture.


You know my little secret now.


























It's not the kind of thing to admit to a stranger, but sometimes you have to break the rules.


















































Good girl, but she should be careful in Vienna.


Okay.
Hello. Is that so important to you?






Okay, I'll be back, but...





















Bad day?
I'm always sick at this time.




When was the last time you saw him?














I knew how to knock the temperature before the exams, how best to hide the vagina, how to get away from something.












I think it's a good idea.


If we need to meet the concierge, we better go.








He's got a bad English, better speak German, and you're gonna be...















We'd better not see each other.

















Ah, Mr. Martins, it's good to see you.

Come on in, Mr. Martins, we're all set.

We're all ready to hear your lecture.




So, ladies and gentlemen, it's all good that ends well.


Ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I introduce Mr. Martins from behind the ocean.







What influence did the author have on you in the first place?



This is, of course, Mr. Martins' little joke, we all know that Zane Grey was writing so-called Westerns about cowboys and bandits.





Can I ask you something? Mr. Martins is writing a new book?





Mr. Popescu, we're very pleased to see you.
















You've been flirting with the worst racketeer gang in the vein-- friends of your precious Harry, and now they're looking for you for murder.






Payne, give me the file on Harry Lime and Mr. Martins a big whiskey.
I don't need your drink, Calloway.
You'll want it now. I don't need another murder in this case, and you were born to be killed, so I'll tell you the facts.















You know, Paine's a big fan of yours, he promised to lend me one of your books.

















We've got better witnesses, take a look...









We'll send him to your hotel in the morning.










































It's better that he died.
























This is the first time I've seen you laugh.



























































When was the last time you saw Lime?

I need the truth, Miss Schmidt, we know he's alive.













If you help me, I'm ready to help you.




I wish he'd really died.










Okay, I'm crazy, I saw a ghost.










Have you had to run a lot lately?









Good to see you, Holly.


Really? I still have bad digestion, Holly.
The only thing that helps is these pills, the last of them.



Bad, but don't worry, old man, nothing's gonna happen to her.














Old Lime has better things to do.


















































But the dead better stay dead, they haven't lost anything, poor people.


















Look, Martins, you could arrange to meet him at some little cafe here in the international zone.




















What price are you willing to pay?









Good night.








What's wrong with that?






































You have your precious honesty. You don't need anything else.
Do you still need it?
No, I don't need him anymore.





What good have we done him?

























It's the largest children's hospital in Vienna.


























- Okay, sir. Don't tell me you're doing this for free.

































































































































Dear little friends, today is your holiday.
You should be happy. Walk forward as one blooming army.
























































Beautiful cloth?
This one's good.
I'll make you a new shirt at home.


















Who needs kids?



























Okay, let him come in.


I've made inquiries, he's from a very good family.





Okay.













Okay.























































Dear Ladies and Gentlemen. Today we are present at this worthy gathering of honored guests and members of our large family.










And now the solo of young barin Tommy "Oh, my dear."






















She's getting better.





It was your dear son who arranged it. Goddamn beggar!







You old son of a bitch!







I need your clothes!










The excepted people are happy.




















and to open a new school for these needy children.


Mr. Hung, we need to look around for this school.





























It's not that bad.





Little bastard.
You beat up a little kid.






You don't have to fight.

Little bastard.








Give me a new one.



















Was that your little brother?














Okay.


























































Little bully.
















Honey, you're like your brother.











Well, spending money would be good for him.
Dad, why was that little girl screaming?



















All right, take the money and have lunch.
























All right, how dare you lie to me?























Good morning.



















It's more important.

As they say, health is more important.





Does it matter?


- Oh, honey.



But it's important too.
You have a new girlfriend every day.

















Yes, darling.




















Madame, the tea is ready for Dong Guay.



Okay.

































Okay.






Okay, okay.





I'm looking for a new personal secretary.














Okay, I'll talk to you.








But more importantly, my son Charles needs a math teacher.




All right, go, go.




















Good morning.

Beautiful.





The worst thing that could happen is that I'm fired.




What about our old customers?











She's beautiful, but she's too proud.
























That's a beautiful name.






















New medicine in a new era.
It's very important.















I have a bad memory.










Mr. Ho, I need approval.











I need you to explain it to me.














Big Brother.
You look happy.
















This old thing?



Big deal.














Your big brother's Ben's friend?












Okay.

Ask Big Brother.



I'll see you around the old place.

I have to go.
























I'd rather work than go to school.





















Our house is small.








































































You don't think I need money?


I need to go to the factory and check the books.












































We need to find a way to tell him.









You don't need to worry about them.
That's a good idea.



You need to take care of everything.





We need to do something about the factory.





























































Good plan.












That's a good plan.



Okay.
- What happened to the big meeting?































It's very important.






































Big brother, and she's cute.









You have such beautiful hair.











Okay.
Okay.
Not bad, eh, Master?

Very good.




Even better.


























You're a bad man!





Bad!
Bad!
Bad!










If you were a good boy, you'd go home right now.









I don't need a nephew like that!






I don't want your dirty money.








































I'm an important man now.













They may just stay home, but they'd better stand here and starve.










I have a friend, he's one of the bad guys.





























If he tells the cops, we set this case up for him, and then our goose is ready.






































Okay.
















Okay, I'll tell the teacher.














































You need to take into account what you have to do and what you don't have to do.







All right, go.






We need to steal to survive.






You just have to work hard.











If you're willing to pay us for this, there won't be any more problems.



But I've been in a terrible state lately.

I need to go home and get some rest.




















You don't have to watch us leave.



And Chang, be a good boy.
Have a safe journey.





































I couldn't say anything new.

I'm sure they think I can't say anything new, and the poet shouldn't be too famous.






His partner, the princess, is funding a magazine that published his first poems.
The princess is beautiful and very elegant.







































You're in too good a relationship with the police.















- The little bastard bit me!










I need you as a witness.












































You have every right, my dear, as do I... so we're even.














You're trying too hard to understand what's going on, my dear young man, and this is a serious mistake.



- All set?








Okay.












































You have a beautiful marriage, but men sometimes lose their heads.










































- It's new.
- Yeah, it's new.



















































It was better to wait a day.
















I was gonna give him some important news.
























He's very handsome and very famous.






















And it was the first night Orpheus' death entered his room and watched him sleep.


















The worst of these phrases is much better than any of my poems.


Orpheus, little phrases won't feed our child.












Your voice is beautiful.















He doesn't want her.







You'd better lie down and close your eyes.










- Okay. Can you get the car out?






- Very good.



I have to go to town.

Forgive me for my bad mood.






































No one knows this better than you.

Orpheus sent me these texts yesterday morning.













































































Algonis can't tell you anything new and you're gonna get tired.












Okay.














"The morning of the young widow is fast as a midday candle."







It's the last drop!








When I need orders, I take care of them.























Your wife is in great danger.


I'm telling you, your wife is in great danger.




















I have a lot to say.










































































You don't have to ask.









I'm happy I'm not alive anymore.













You just have to believe.
































































































































Young and old, they obey orders.



- What they're doing is worse.












































































How good of you to come.

















- I don't need to talk about it.










It's better than blinding yourself... or losing your leg.





























































































































































- It's beautiful.












This is our last hope and we must not lose a second.


That's the worst thing in any of the worlds.


For the last time, I'm asking you... don't try to understand what I want to do,




























Last effort, Ertebise.






































































She says we're worse than them. Because we don't know what happened to our families, and we have nowhere to go.





Poor guy! He's so handsome, he's healthy!













- What am I doing wrong? Okay, okay, I'll be right out.

You can't stand here. - All right, Sergeant, I'll be right out.




























































In addition to the obligations set out in the church canons, among which the most important are mutual assistance and the religious and moral education of children, you also assume obligations towards society in accordance with State laws, which you must also comply strictly with.


























- It's okay.














I'm very happy.
- I'm so glad I'm back.







He was the one who stopped lava and fire on the mountain during the great volcanic eruption in the forty-first.

I'm sure you'll be happy.





















- How's the fish now? - Okay.



























The earth is good, it'll be fertile again.




And to your good land?















A woman like me needs something else.



































Yeah, we left. America is good for young people. I'm old.

My coum is old, but stupid.























You need this cafeteria, and no one's gonna protest about this little theft.



















It takes a lot of money to emigrate. And to have somewhere to go.






















- It's all set.




- Is that good?

Thank you, thank you very much.























I didn't do anything wrong to anyone.
Because you're not being nice.

I'm not doing anything wrong!


I'm building a house for my husband. What do you see wrong here?







She's not a very good woman. She doesn't have a reputation. It's okay.
















































What did I do wrong?



- Okay, okay!












And that's what I'm gonna put up with.
They pay me less. But I'm gonna work even harder.




















And this morning I got all this junk again. That's creepy!
I've been holding these old pictures, pictures. I felt like he was mad at me.












































I felt sorry for you the first day I saw you.






















I can only feel a lot of pity for you.










- A little. We caught tuna this morning. - What's this?






























































Yeah, I'm happy too.















Instead of giving birth here, it's better... stop it!


































It's good here, isn't it?



























Ginostra has big motor boats.




















But I'm worse than them.














- But for a race, you're gonna have to lose 60 pounds.




































- Anyway, we need some kind of nest.











































- But you wanted to stay here this morning.
- It was this morning.


- There's the best trackers in the world.




- Only I've heard there's a good track in America, too.






So let's go where we're better off.



















So I'm gonna stay here, talk to him... and then I'm gonna catch up with you at the station, okay?
- Okay.









We need Dan Butler.

























These races aren't the last.






Well, since it's gonna hurt you, tomorrow the banks are gonna open... I'm gonna pay what I can, and I'm gonna work the rest.

Now I'm ready to get the money back.





He says your bill is ready.

And he says your visas are ready.














- I sent all the strings to my best friend, Claude.
























- Your cargo arrived this morning.


- Your things aren't as welcome here as you are.



















It's been a long time since Dad left on some important business.












- Yeah, we're really good friends.













It's good to know about your friends.




















- Under a good one.







America is beautiful, everyone knows it.


I keep telling him, all he needs is there.
And the races are the biggest.



I'm ready to give a speech whenever I can.












These are very good napoleons.














It's a beautiful place for a boy.






















I see you're a good boy.





That's very nice of you.



And I have some good news for you.




- Okay.















- But that was good of me.


Thank you very much.
















































Goodbye, sweetheart.





































This morning.












Paulie's a good teacher.



You need to learn.










- I'm always happy to see you.










- First time I see you don't find anything to say.






















































- Okay.







But I need a chance.






























- Don't look at me, okay?
- Okay.




































Girls, they're so cute.
























- Of course it's better to stay with Paulie... but I want to see what's cooking, too.
- Yeah, you better go and see.



- How bad is it?





















I didn't mean to ask, but I really need a winner.
- You need that much?




- Okay.















- It doesn't matter at the beginning.















- He's a good jockey.















King has a big step... but I don't think it helped.



- I thought you called George a good jockey.





It's good that by their rules, you can get your bet back.










- It's better than kicking your ass.








- The happiest bet of my life.


























- I remember when you bought me these shirts in Rome after you made a big deal.
I got a bigger one, I got a bigger one.
Did you forget all the good stuff?










I gave you most of my money... and if it doesn't, I'll give you more.








- Joe, Joe, that's better.





















- I'm sorry, Dan - if I said something wrong this morning... but you hit a kid who just told you the truth.








































You're the best player, Daddy, and you smiled at your luck.














It's like old times.



- But you're not... you're not ready, are you?



















- All right, let's talk about the horse.










He's got good taste.




"Gilford is the favourite in the race for the Great Prize."




















So, my dear, if you'll excuse me... I'll leave you, there's more to it.




- I don't know, honey.













- Okay. But I have a surprise for you.

















Now I'm in a good mood, Danny.




For old times' sake.









- Okay.







































- It's funny to hear it from you... after you say it in the morning:



















- Listen, sweetheart... a man lives with what he's got and nothing more.













I'm the best guy you can fall in love with.





Don't worry, sweetheart.































































- That's all that matters.








We'd better go, Joe.
Joe, your dad made the best ride I've ever seen.













What do you want?









Well... if that's what you want.





Okay.





First floor.



Okay, lady.








She said she wanted something more expensive.






If you know what's best for you, say it.








I'm worried about you, Mr. Simms, and your wife, my client, and a very dear friend.




- Not yet. But you're getting involved in one of the biggest public scandals you've ever seen at the store.







You'll think differently when you see your name on the front page of the paper. The man who pursues a sick woman is in a state of nervous distress.















- Thank you very much.

















- Hello, darling.
- What happened, darling?
- Nothing, darling.


You look very handsome in the middle of the day, in front of all the chatter that patients wear you out.



Honey, I was just asking her if you were busy.








- Of course not, darling.


It didn't make anyone feel any worse.











- I don't hate them at all, darling.


I need them.






I'm a very busy doctor and a happy husband... an enviable combination.

Bill, you're beautiful.








































I don't like to scare such a beautiful woman.







And it's obviously a big one.





And then, worse still, identify me with a disgusting con man.


I always thought that I had a beautiful, straight look and that my honest heart was shining on my not-so-brilliant face.

Please. Vincent is an old friend of mine.
I don't want him to think that I'm so cruel that I made a beautiful woman cry right into their soup.
That's better.










- Not very well.






Tina, darling.



Wherever you are, you always attract the best society.
Don't be stupid, darling.



































- It'll cost you a lot to invite David and me to Rome.


I hope your new marriage brings you something useful in life, not just a divorce. - Can I get you a drink, Anne?











I'm glad you're here.















We don't want to disappoint him and be like all the other confused little clients on the analyst's couch.

- You need to be gone.

Your husband would've heard about it at the first psychoanalyst meeting.













Nine hours of peaceful, happy sleep.











































- Feeling better?
















I find it more convenient and less expensive.




You'd better do something about it.




















Of course it's none of my business, darling.










He'll hold you until he gets what he needs.









Struggling for dear David in my bedroom.


It's a big sacrifice for psychiatry.







- Honey, I'm covered in cream.


- Yes, very nice.
- I'm glad.


The greatest pleasure when we go to the party together, I get when people look at you and say, "Who's this beautiful girl?"



Thank you, darling.















Okay, put her through.


Nope. I told you I'd give you the money first.
You won't have a chance to develop your new martyr complex and also destroy us both.

My dear ex-girlfriend, I don't think it's your stupid business where I can get the money and how.





Very good.
You're in great shape today, Terry.



And watch yourself, my dear.













My dear Anne.


It's a great dignity in a patient.


My dear Anne, you're talking total nonsense.


Very good.

Hello, darling.















Were those happy days?


I know you, Anne, better than you know yourself.











It's better than stealing than a nervous breakdown.










I woke up this morning with a brand-new woman, like nothing ever happened.

































A little trouble.


- Hurry up, okay, Vincent?

























































It doesn't matter.



































And you're ready to sign a statement?



On the last page, please.

All right, Bob.
















































Of course, darling.




















































Pretty good marriage.








































Okay.

































Must be a big stitch inside.















- I'm happy to give you all the help you need.



























It's important.



















I'll call you if I hear anything new.





I'm your friend, as good as a lawyer, Bill.

Well, bad, Bill, very bad.


And our only best defense is insanity.








- It's not a big difference.























I wanted to call her this morning before I read the papers.











































We'd better think about getting the doctor to sleep.








The index, the middle finger and the thumb, it's all very clean.
They look like this lady, okay.




















I should have pretended to be healthy and happy when I was sick and unhappy.





































You want to make a new statement, Mrs. Sutton?



It doesn't matter.

My husband is a very good man.
I don't think there's a better and a nicer one.







It's better if he divorces me.





Thousands and thousands of dollars, and I couldn't buy myself a new dress or what I wanted.



























It gives us the first clue how Korvo could hold her... blackmail.


I saw you... this morning, I think.











I understand you had a conversation with her husband this morning.






I'm too old to cover for this kind of woman.














You'd make a good prime suspect.
Even better than poor Anne?
















It's one of the last new ideas in psychiatry, intercepting the subconscious.









Good night, Mr. Korvo.




But it's important.
Okay.





- Yeah, it's bad when it happens, Doc.

It was the first normal thought that came to me when it all started.




Okay.




I began to resent the way a man should not, attacking this woman, who knowingly never did bad things.


This morning, when we discovered that the footage was missing from my office, I knew immediately who took it.

















It would have been a good line of defense if you had figured out who the killer was.



























Okay.























Daisy told me the police came this morning.






There's a new article in the papers this morning that the police suspect someone other than Mrs. Sutton.






They say they'll make a new arrest as soon as they find the tapes.







- Good night, Mr. Korvo.
- Good night.






















- I'm glad you did.













































Anne, when did you steal the first time?

























































































- She'll be working tomorrow morning.







































- It's better if we help you.

















It's good to have a wife who comes back to your house.


Send an ambulance to 1400 Canon Drive, we'll have to get the body out of here.


This sophisticated gentleman is a very old actor.








Less important awards have already been awarded.




























She's never been, and she's never gonna be anyone less, or anyone else.





I'm happy to be able to pass this prize... into her hands, such young hands.

































You're Margot Channing's best friend.




The best.







You don't think it's expensive enough, let alone the rest.









I'm not ready.










Honey, you'd write the same play about the Northers.









Lloyd, honey, be brave.

- We need a new corset.




My dear wife.











They need autographs.
















Is it so quiet in an old coat and a ridiculous hat?






Hello, sweetheart.








I think you're gonna have some things to do in the bathroom, darling.

Sweet Birdie.











That's so sweet.


Your new play for Miss Channing, too?



















She's been walking for the last week.

It was the most important day of my life, until today.






I guess we should start from the time I lived in Wisconsin.





It must have happened to you, too, when fictional life is more interesting and much more important than reality.



































But even the most recent comedian should understand them and respect them.

You don't have to apologize for me.




And about comedians... I've been playing the first part for 11 years, and you know it.

Why aren't you ready?
Thank you very much.










- But you're better.



My dear, my indistinguishable, cracked lady.










I think I'm better... I don't have words to say how happy I am.

Mr. Sempson is leaving, you have so much to say to each other.



I'll be ready in a minute.





The geniuses don't need luck, and I'm gonna need it.
- I'm calm for you.






Nice to meet you, Eva.














Why do you have to leave here?
I don't need to, I want to.


Then why? You're the best, the most successful director in the theater.













So you don't have to judge anyone.






























































It's all set.










The next three weeks were a fairy tale, and I was Cinderella in the last act.






I've seen the last scene a thousand times and I cry every time.










What's new?


Very nice.
They're cute, aren't they, Birdie?

Now it's all there, except for the basketball ring.











But a costume girl is a different matter. Except for the tenor, the costume girl is the sweetest thing in show business.




Let Miss Brown take the dress.
















The painting is ready.






Goodbye, darling. Sleep tight.











Happy birthday, darling.
You could've played better. Yeah, okay.











Okay. - How's she doing?




Good night, darling.


Do you need an argument or an answer?


Now you need arguments.











There's nothing wrong with that.
Good morning.
How do you like my new elegant suit?



Are you sure you don't need him anymore?

You sound like an old lady.

- We have to take this script.







- Yeah, honey, you forgot.












Are you ready?











































































You need sharp teeth. But I will not allow them to be refined on me... or on Eve.

























Hi, honey.






I'm glad you're happy.























Margo, darling, hello.



What are you doing here? Dear Margot, you are the real Peter Pan.













Yes. Eva, this is Mr. DeWitt's mother's old friend,







You won't be able to bore him, darling.






Go make him happy.









- It's not ready yet.




Why don't you bow down?


If my guests don't like it here, take them to the maid's room, they'll be better off there.

















Max, darling... one good sip and you'll get rid of this Miss Kaswell.





We need a backup for your sister's role.








Really? I'm always ready to help you out, Max.














I don't think that's a good idea.










Besides, you have a new guest:





- How's the new play going?

Okay.


Don't you think it's important?
















Your mood has nothing to do with the new play.

















Are you happy?
We need to find another word for the notion of happiness.


Next to this sobriety, my new mink looks like a pajama.







Not much, Eva. You don't have to think you were taken here out of pity.




But I know the whole part so well, every word that you don't have to teach anyone.




- No, darling, Margot himself.














































I agree. To be a good actor or actress, you have to want it more than anything in the world.














You're in the hive too, darling. You didn't know? We're all bees that make honey day and night.
Isn't that right, sweetheart?




He needed help behind the counter.






- That's a good idea.




- Happy housewife.


























If she needs to put evil on someone, let it be me.

















Do I have to buy myself a watch?
















What, so bad?








She'll be as good as you.

I'm the old diamond trombone.




It sounded so fresh, so new.
Sweet Lloyd, sweet Eva.
You're all so cute.




Are you feeling better, darling?

























Max, you're an old cat.
Miss Channing, you have no idea how happy I am that you're late.










































Better be Byemond and Fletcher. They died 300 years ago.



This star you can change at any time to a new, fresh, armed with fire and music.










Hang on until the pharmacy sells the last pills.


















Like an old reporter:






- Don't. I don't need to be tolerated or forgiven.














No, I'll tell you that, but for the last time.






You're a beautiful and smart woman.

A beautiful and smart woman, and a great actress.












I admit I've had my best days, but I can't be bought for one cocktail... with a salty peanut.



Be happy. Stop all this bullshit about me and Eva.












I already told you this is gonna be my last try.







I'm willing to believe I was right.










You don't have enough epithets, darling.





































































I've been in a bad mood the last week.

If you think about it, it's not just the last week.

















I love Bill the most in this world, I want to be the one he needs, but I'm not Margo Channing.



















She's so young, so sweet... and so helpless.





It doesn't matter how many careers we've had before. There's nothing better:


You can be an important person, even famous, but you won't be a woman.










It's a good thing she invited me... and a few other journalists from other newspapers.


It wasn't just good, baby, it was a real show.
Something needs to be fixed, but it's nothing.






Patience and hard work, and you'll be a good actress if that's what you want.










From that very first night, in this dressing room...
















It's a good thing they didn't throw anything.






















Or should I pretend I'm busy? Let's leave it.











That first night when Margot hit you so hard, what theater was that in?


"Schubert" is a wonderful old theater-- traditions untouched by an earthquake or fire.














Eva, I've heard wonderful reviews about your game.
I'm glad I played one.




Lucky coincidence.






Margot's having dinner in public? It's the new Margot, but she's late, like she used to be.







He borrowed it from the old articles.



It's even better now.
Clearly, the reluctance of our first-named ladies to give way to young actresses, such as Eva Harrington, who are fighting alone for their future.





That little witch sent the racers to get the critics out of the bars, or where they're still hiding.




Your Bill is here, darling.
It's gonna be okay.
It's gonna be okay.




















If we make a good choice of actors.










Half the authors in the world would give the last shirt for such a compromise.







I've had this cynicism since I realized that I'm different from little boys.




Okay, about 12 o'clock.




I'm glad Bill's back.





Beautiful. And continue sending Eva to me with all her requests.










































I'm sorry to intrude on your happy desk, but I need to talk to you.

















That's sweet.



I didn't think you'd be happy.

Let's sit down for a second, I have a lot to say, and it's not gonna be easy.




You know, I always thought I was a very smart girl, I was sure I had a good head on my shoulders.












Just don't need drama.

But I have some good news.

Miss Channing should be happy.







Don't underestimate Addison.







More to myself, as it turns out, than to others.










It's very important to me.



















I'm so happy that there's something I can do to help you.


How long does it take even in the theater for you and Lloyd to be trusted again?



I'm willing to do more for a role like this.









Only that Margot would be happy to help me with that role.



- I don't see anything funny. - You don't have to.





















I've never been as happy as I am today.
It's very nice here.






Little Miss Evil.












- Fiancé. - Yes, darling?



















I have to find time to live, not play the roles I'm old for... just because I have nothing to do with evenings.

But I can go on tour with an old play.












Bill calmed down, and Lloyd was happy.






















For the theater world of New Haven, it's a narrow sidewalk between the Shubert Theatre and the Taft Hotel somewhere in a small town.



Tomorrow morning you will have your seat on the banks of immortality.







The end of the old road and the beginning of a new one.














There's something I need to tell you.
Costumes are expensive.































Eve, honey, I'm Addison.


He's gonna write his best plays for me, and I'm gonna make them great.

































I need to... we need to talk like a hit man with a hit man.

You're not the champ next to me, you're the last one in class.
Addison, tell me everything you want and leave. I need to rest.
Okay, let's be straight, though I think you already know what I'm saying.













Like the whole story of the last 20 years.










Something tells you to listen to me.

You can't buy it, Eva, take care of it, then you'll always be ready for danger.



They'd love to know where you are.






































This is gonna be the best performance of your life.
It was her best play.






Let me just say that I'm happy, and that the reward you gave me is not so much recognition of past, but of future merit.

Most of it belongs to the theater. The theater that gave me everything I had.

Max Fabian, dear Max.
Honey, sentimental and brave Max, who wasn't scared by an unknown, inexperienced girl.
My first friend in the theater, whose kindness I will never forget.




To my director, who always demanded more from me than my talent, who patiently taught me.




I can't even name everyone who helped me with their guidance and advice, making this the happiest day of my life possible.

And if I can. My heart is here in the theater. Three hundred miles is a long distance for a loving heart.



Everyone got what they deserved, darling.
I'm the owner, I have to hurry home before the guests start stealing liquor.











- I'm so happy for you, Eva.









Okay, I'll give you a ride and go to the party alone.




























- The maid will clean up in the morning.
















































































We know who committed most of the theft.

We caught him, but the witness drifted at the last minute.

It may be the traffickers who cooperate with the crooks. Gambling houses are flourishing.




















One, you get a striped stick.


I think it'll be the best punishment.






- I need Cobby.





What do you want?





















There's a proposal... big.

Too big for you, Cobby.











There's a bit of cotton. It takes $50,000 to get started.













- Well? Your type said you needed your consent.







I don't need a handout.





























You need a gun?





The cops have a big brother-in-law.



























I don't care about Deeks. I'd love to help you, Gaz, but I've got plenty of mouths to feed.






Hey, honey.


























I think you know I've done a lot of things.



That's right, I was ready when I got busted for the tsatskis I'd forgotten about.








Okay. What other problems remain?





They don't care about the price of stones.

How much do you need?

Bear, this is the most expensive, let's say 25 thousand.

Lewis Cjavelli, he's the best in Chicago.

Opens the safe like a can, but it's expensive.



And finally, we need a strong man.














Of course, it's best to stay out of it, but... I know serious people who might be interested.


So, what, we're gonna take a big shot?
Okay. One more thing.

Cobby will be happy to give you an advance.













- Good day, sir.
- Good night.


















I need a hundred thousand.
Go around my debtors, starting in the morning.
No, no, do whatever you want, but don't tell me anything.







Yes, I will. Okay.
Honey, this is Gaz.
He's got what you need.

Coffee, honey?

What were you dreaming about, honey?








It was a big black stallion I remembered the dream.




Was it with you when you were little?



You know... my ancestors brought the first tribal Irish horses here.



























- Deeks, you don't have to bring it back right away.
























There's the best water in the whole country.













































You have the largest office in the precinct.



















I'm sorry, sir... Mrs. bad.


Okay.









I need cash, not promises.


There's no time. I need the money.
I need the money now.




















He's preparing a case that hasn't happened before. However, he needs
























Okay.


















Good job.










































Gus thinks he's good, and he's rarely wrong.







He says the baby needs air.

















Housing was paid until the first day.

I met her on the street this morning.

That's so sweet of her.
























Okay?


We need to get to the sewer at 11:00. 45.










- Is the boy better?
















Okay. We'll see Emmerich right after the case.












Yeah, honey?

- Honey, you always feel bad.

I hate being alone in this big house. - I hate it.









- Sorry, honey. Let's play cards... like we used to?



I remember the good old days. We loved playing cards so much.
Do you remember? - I wish I could stay, honey, but I can't. - Remember, Lon?
It's a very important case.








Okay.












That's not very good.











That's good, we're done.

- Good job.

















It brings me to a good mood... which gives me courage.



I've had a complex of superiority over the last few years.

You're a big man, why are you so different from me?






























We need to collect a very large sum. It's also a condition of yours, in cash.










They'll be looking for you first.




















- Okay, Mr....











































Don't worry, Maria, Lewis is gonna be okay.

You'll have six more kids, fat, big black eyes,





























































Okay.
I'm glad.













They're from the police. What do they want here?













His body was caught this morning.

















- When was the last time you saw him? - Wait... Wednesday, right here.

He was killed early this morning.






























Tell me I was with you... between 5:00 and 3:00 in the morning.



No, no. It's politics, darling.

- Okay, call me later.






I have some bad news.























Friends, I'm a respectable man. I'm happy to help Gaza.
It's a pleasure.


- Okay, we'd better get out of here faster.




















I need a commissioner.



He's everywhere. Half the city saw him in the last day.

Please. I need a commissioner.



I need a commissioner.
















Deeks, honey...









You're gonna take care of this one last detail, and then?






He promised me the biggest stuff.












































All right, go to Camden Street, 4117.




















































The Commissioner needs your head.


































I'm so glad, Uncle. I'm so glad.

















Miss, I'm sorry about the door, but it's worse for you.















Mr. Emmerich was here on Friday from 2:30 in the morning.




































We need Lewis Cjavelli.







How's your head, Doc? Okay, as far as possible.







- I need some.

















- Do you have a gun, darling?




You'd better turn yourself in when you're caught.
That's right, that's better.
Coffee, honey?



I need to get out of here, too.












You need the money.





- It's better than a train.

- All the worse for my parents.




All you have to do is fill up.











She's in good condition.























All right, get your suitcase.







We've seen an old movie, familiar along and across.











Come on. - Okay.


- Mr., we'd better get going.























You don't have to.





























We need a doctor!












He's not feeling well, doc?
Really bad?





Lie down, honey, don't waste your energy.




The doctor... you need help.

No need, he's unconscious.






























We'll take the last one, too.


He's the most beautiful black stallion in Hicorywood.
Style... black... handsome... now we'll go... home...




- it's gonna be okay. - Oh, my God.
If dad didn't sell the black stallion everything's gonna be okay.








* You're as beautiful as dawn *














In one distant country, there was a small kingdom... peaceful, prosperous, rich in tradition.
In it, in a luxurious castle, there lived an early widowed gentleman... with his little daughter, Sinderella.
Even though he was a kind and loyal father, and he tried to provide his beloved daughter with luxury and comfort, he knew that the girl needed maternal care.
So he remarried... to a woman from a good family... who had two daughters, one with Cinderella age. Their names were Anastasia and Drizella.



But, no matter what, she still remained as kind and sweet, and every morning gave her a new hope that one day... her sweet dreams would come true.

I know, I know, it's been a great morning, but... it was a beautiful dream, too.
















Old grumps!
















There's a new mouse on our tower!




Well, she needs a dress. - No, no, no.


- He needs a jacket, shoes...






Jacques, I think you'd better tell him what's what.







That's better.



Well, that's better.





























It's not my idea to feed you first.



















So if you don't want to lose a warm bed, you better get rid of those dreams.



Lucifer has good sides.



But there's got to be something good about him.
































All right, breakfast's ready.
















It's the same thing from morning to evening.







Good morning, Drizella. How did you sleep?




Good morning, Anastasia.





- Good morning, Mother.
































It can be used in a more beneficial way.

There's a big carpet on the floor in the main hall.














- But we need to be patient.





I'm lonely in this deserted old castle.

I want to hear the little legs slap the halls again.

- Maybe we should just leave him alone.









































































































It's mommy's. Nice, but very old.








We need to shorten the sleeves... we need a ribbon...


- Sinderella! Well, what else do they need?













































* And Cinderella's miracle dress is ready *
♪ And our Cinderella dress is ready ♪













- Okay.

















What lovely beads! Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh









Okay.





Well, Cinderella, you're not ready.


















Oh, thank you so much!





Isn't it beautiful?













Little thief!








- Ungrateful little... girls, girls.























You just have to hurry, 'cause even miracles take time.

















First thing you need is a pumpkin.










♪ But this thing needs a ma-bob ♪






Oh, she's beautiful!





Here we go, four jumpers, our horse crew is ready.














Well, I guess that's it. Although... oh, yeah, one last touch...



Well, get in the carriage, darling.






- It's beautiful, darling. Precious...









Oh, what a beautiful dress!









You must remember, my dear. Once the clock hits 12, the spell will be broken, and all this will become what it used to be.




Hurry up, darling.



























Look at this, you pompous old fool!
































































- Who is she? - She's beautiful, isn't she?


















Thank you so much for everything.













- Doesn't matter. There are more important things.










































































You armless little idiot!

















- We need to get dressed!


We need to get dressed.



































This is your last chance.





































Sure. Anastasia, darling.












Quiet, darling.


It's just that she could use a little less.


























Stupid little idiot!
























































I live in a small town called Banning, in the middle of the desert. It's on the way to Palm Springs.






We didn't consider depreciation for that new equipment last year, did we? Nope.




Peterson says he needs a financial report before he can lend me a loan.




- I've had worse.










Have a good trip!













I assume you decided to take this little vacation only this morning at 9:00 a.m.?






No explanation, nothing. And I'm supposed to believe you need a little vacation?












Do you have to go?
Yeah, I do. I know what I'm doing.








Let's go get a drink with Eddie. Okay.



The air conditioner is so good.











Maybe you really need a week alone.
Maybe we both do.








And I don't want you to suffer, darling.











If that's right, and I believe it is... you and I will be happy together.







Nice room on the sixth floor with the bay windows. He's a porter. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey

It's a little booklet about how to have fun in San Francisco.


No, it's market week, and it's her last day.
They're always spinning around here, but not when they're needed.

















- Fine, just fine. - I hope you're bored.













Said he needed to contact you immediately, that it was very urgent.






You know, I'm kind of on vacation. That's what you told me, and that's what I told him, honey.





Call him back, if it's really that important, he'll talk to you.














- Thank you very much. - Tell me, how long has this been going on?










Things have gone uphill in the last few days, haven't they?













- Come on, let's go. - Well, okay. I know what it's like to be alone in a strange city.








Nice to meet you, Bigelow.











I'm gonna need at least a week in Cleveland to visit all the customers.






Yes, Mr. Wallace, I'm leaving here in the morning.
Harry, you have to move your head nicely.









Hey, you're good.
My wife is a good dancer, isn't she, Bigelow?


It's the last night I'll be able to have fun before I'll be a humble housewife again.
Okay.



I need to unpack my stuff and have dinner. No, I'm not.





















She rides a big convertible.



















I know you're a lonely man in a big city.

I like the good company.




Okay, where?



It's okay now, cameraman." I'll keep the candle in my window, good night, Paula. Room service, please.









I think I just drank too much last night. I need some fresh air.



The heart, too. It's a good thing not everyone has the same health as you, Mr. Bigelow, otherwise the doctors would be out of work.
Glad to hear it, Doctor. I was a little worried.




You can get dressed, Mr. Bigelow, I need to get your test results back. Thank you, Doctor.



















- Poison that destroys vital organs.






















Help? Who needs your help?

Who needs anything from you?














I'm just having a little stomach disorder. Maybe it's not that bad, Doctor?

At a high dose, you die suddenly in a matter of hours.


You won't be so bad for a while. Then it's gonna happen all of a sudden. In a day, two days.
















In a day, two days. The biggest one is in a week.















They checked out of the hotel this morning.























I'm afraid you'll never know why it was so important for him to talk to you.














Okay.



















































Are you sure this is really important?
It's important.



And you need to be nicer to her than you do to me.
















You really can't brag about good manners, can you, Bigelow?


























- Here. I'll call you if I have to.






















You assured the document one morning before I came to work.






You also said that this Reynolds guy made some kind of deal in Palm Springs... and stopped by your office early in the morning, on his way north, to notarize her.



























Thank you very much, Mrs. Phillips.











I don't know what you need, but you're trying to trick me.










Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I don't believe you! He needed me to justify it.











He met her yesterday morning.



He'd been asking about her for months, looking for her, and he found out where she lived yesterday morning.


That was the last time I saw him alive.







What do you want?









What do you want?









You're involved in this by your beautiful neck.














Imagine! How sweet, Miss Rakubian.





Really? A first-class trip to Buenos Aires on model salary?









I don't think we can do that. He's willing to pay $20 for it.




That's right. Honesty is the best policy.

But in your case, since you're a good friend of Mr. Reynolds...


He must have come for the photo. But he can't be your good friend... because his name isn't George Reynolds.





It's a good picture, isn't it?






































Of course, I'll do it, and we'll lose our best client.

















Frank, darling.










































































I needed to see you. You didn't have to come, Paula.













You need to get back to Banning right away. No, I'm not leaving, Frank.

- You'd better come back, believe me.











You promise? Honey, I love you so much.


























Is that a new suit?



Please hurry, darling. I love you so much.








I told you everything this morning. Yeah, I've told you enough so I can follow the wrong path and not know Stanley's the one I'm looking for.










He got sick after dinner.



















You'd better listen to me. You have to give me a chance.



































I think my sister should be happy to see his brother at his wedding in the best outfit.























- I think he needs money.



















You turned to me like a little fox."

















You'll tell the Bank that I have the best of the best at Furies.













- I'm talking and I'm gonna talk until I meet a bigger talker than I am.



- Clay, you need to learn good manners.









































People in "brillitos"-- small villages-- they're hardly the ones behind the hills-- they could.


Is it a little friendship between you and Miss Vance?

All right!












You're too old to play dolls.












































All Furies are yours, okay.














I printed them on the best paper from Washington.



The image of a beautiful girl riding on a bull.






It would be better if I discussed this situation with Mr. Anaheim.




Good night, Father.











































So I can be perfectly calm.



You need a man like me. Who wouldn't obey anyone except you.
What do you think, you're the best man in God's world?
- You know someone better?




No, it doesn't matter.






I always get here first, don't I?
You always get here first, don't you?




















Okay.









Kiss your best friend.



- Beautiful and happy days.




















I killed your father in a fair fight, and I'd be happy to do the same to myself.




















Master, the appetizer is ready.
Beans are ready, coffee's on the table.
























Let's talk about the weather, Miss Jeffords, a wonderful beautiful evening.






































Maybe it's for the best, she'll calm down.





- But the profits are too small for a game like this.

- Okay, Mr. Darrow.





















- He's too good for that.

















Ever since you first got on a horse.

It's been so long with me that it doesn't matter whether I like it or not... without that love, I'd be a lost person.














































































You're not ready to marry me or anyone else.

You don't need a husband.
You need a man who's good for Fury.









































His bank is our new agent in this area.




























Let me see you in your new suit.







You're playing with big rocks.


















- That's not good.












Okay, don't look for him, I brought some with me.

I need you.




Daughter, I want you to meet my old and dear friend Mrs. Florence Burnett.

- My darling.






My dear.











My dear, come in.

I'm glad Tiger entertained you while T.S. I went to my wife's room.










What difference does it make, dear, as long as his money has value?

























- Try it, my dear.






- Good night.
- Good night, my dear.
Good night, my dear.


My dear, I already feel almost at home.








That's it, okay.

- Okay, son.





But boss, he said it was very important... he...








The last deal with Bailey brought in a profit of seven percent?



- My dear, come in.








- My dear...






My dear... it's just sacrilege, what a lovely creature like you is locked up in the Furies so you're missing a chance to drive around Europe.














It's gonna be okay, my dear.






She hasn't been herself in the last few weeks.




















I heard her for the first time today.


- Okay.






















That's important information.



You got a little gun in there...

Really, little.











Okay.
Obviously a woman's presence here in the last month.


And so is your good friend when you realize it.














And old man Anaheim is sitting in his bank, ready to cut us off.




























My darling, I'm not the kind of guy who can crumble.


- My dear, come in.
How nice of you to tell Chiquita to make me some tea.
I always said hot tea was the best woman's ally against rain.




I don't know where else I'd enjoy myself and wish I could stay, my dear.

My dear, don't even try.











The answer, my dear, is very simple.


You need his money, and you know it.



























My dear, the whole county will envy you because you're going to have a wonderful trip across Europe.
And I envy you for the first time.
And, my dear, remember, please, the Furies will always be ready for you.
The room will always be ready for her, willn't it, Temple?





















Good night, Doctor.










The old witch shot me.



Get it on your horns, you illegal-born old bull!














Come on, you silly old worms.
Come on, old worm.





The old bull is headed into a trap.







We'll give in to the old bull.





















Okay.

Okay, now you can come out my brave men!





















- Okay, I'll beg.







Kiss your best friend.

















- Hey, honey.







Honey, you can't be new anywhere.












You're not as quiet and calm as you want to be.




In the last few months, I've been all over the railroad.












Beautiful.






We're not ready yet.















You've found a new love, haven't you, Vance?









Just thinking you're gonna lose a part of Fury, you're gonna pry your eyes out.



Okay.

The sooner the better.





Good night.

















You're ready to hit me, aren't you?







- Good night, Mrs. Anaheim.

- Good night.



Good night.


- I'm very happy.
If you'll excuse me, my dear Miss Jeffords is unaccompanied.







- Good night.
- Good night.





















Have a nice day.




You'll forgive an old woman if I'm a little suffocated.
Old?







The old bear put his hands on me.













Okay, darling.

Yes, darling.



Okay.














Scotty, if you were trying to steal, you should've stolen more.






Have you thought about asking her for the money you need?












I need the $50,000 I gave you and the jewels and everything I can turn into money.







I'll call you if you need me.




















































Old Zimmarons who haven't seen white light in a dozen years!



Let's pay a visit to Anaheim, the old bastard!















He's the best I've ever worked for.
He's the best I've ever seen.
He's the best I've ever heard of.







# There hasn't been an old T.S. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.








# There hasn't been an old T.S. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.




Old bastard!


































You should be happy.







































But if I'm wrong, you should keep your little mouth shut.





























She's smart, beautiful. And full of rage and fire.


You're an old bull, T.C., and your pride is excessive.































- Aren't you too old for that? - Old?

Old enough to know everything. And young enough to forget everything I know.
















The old Herreras witch?


It's too heavy for him.








# There hasn't been an old T.S. ♪ Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.










At first, when he was a kid, they were horns.

Then he had an old gun he traded for a bourbon he caught and tame.


I thought the boy liked to feel better about something.
So I saved up some money and I gave him a new air gun for Christmas.










Well, Clyde, Bart and I have been best friends since Bart got to town.






























He's not capable of killing anyone, not even an old puma for which a reward has been announced.























- Beautiful.

I'm probably the best shooter in Cashville.


















I've known him since he was a kid.




Judge, Bart needs a man around.










I just needed a gun.




You don't need anything in your life but gunshots?

I don't know why... but I feel so good when I shoot him like I'm someone very important.



We all need things, Bart.



And it's my responsibility to decide what's best not only for you... but also for the society you live in.
I'm afraid we're gonna have to find you a new place to live, Bart.




























Okay.


























First thing.
How does it feel to be an uncle to a couple of such cute kids?
I feel like it's very important.


























Miss Starr is always happy with a little donation.






But first he needs to fight this lady.






























Okay.







You always have a place for a good man, don't you?




















When we get out of here, the locals will have nothing but... a bunch of old cufflinks and old-fashioned pins.









Except she's not the kind of woman who can make you happy.







































Honey, I'll make as much money as you want.

But it takes time.



- Honey, listen...









You didn't have to shoot till Wednesday.



We're gonna be fine.


















Bart, I wasn't good either, at least until now.

Okay.









It'll be five cents more expensive.












































I need a guy with a strong temper who can stand up for himself and me.




































We have to make it.









- Nice gun.











- You have a beautiful gun, too. - Excuse me.


















































































Joe, don't give up the front page yet.
Honey, what happened?
- What is it, darling?


No, darling.







I need to get rid of her as soon as possible.































This is the last robbery.


- But we're safe now, darling.





























Last one.

- The last one.
- Okay, darling.
- Bart, honey.











We'll meet somewhere in Miami or New Orleans.
- It's better than three months in prison... in separate cells.



























You know how much money it takes for two people to live?


The cashier's office needs him.










Does he need them in the office?
Looks like we do.

























There's a lot I need to tell you that I didn't have time to say last night.



Goodbye, darling.
















- Okay.






















Why would you kill people?









When you do a case like this... you always have to be ready for murder.

I need to tell you... I've done this before.


























Okay.

We'll buy ourselves a good ranch and settle in there.
















Honey, let's go home.












It takes money, and they're at the hotel.












- What cute kids.



































I wish you hadn't called me.














Okay.










- That's very nice.







Well, then I'll be glad to see you again.
































- Come on, darling.




Come on, darling.
















Bart, it's so good to be so close to you.










































Thank God he's gone. Myrtle, how wonderful it is when relatives leave before guests arrive.

Of course not, darling.


















Even if everyone thinks your uncle's a weirdo, he's still my little brother.



























What luck! My dear, the point of today's reception is to... bring you into society, and you could meet nice young people.
Myrtle May Simmons, who has an uncle, Elwood P. Dowd, the biggest jerk in town!

Myrtle, darling, you're very sweet and you have something to offer.
Let the others talk, but there's something nice about every girl.

Keep it together, darling.








I'll be right back, darling.





Vita, my dear.
Good to hear from you.
















Okay.



























- That's good.

Okay. Give me a paw. Careful, don't fall.








Mr. Meagles, it's good to see you.




Thank you. He decided to come here this morning.

































- Good to see you. Goodbye.

















- He'll be happy.
He'll be happy.

















What do you want, darling?






Elwood happy, Vita Louise?
Yes, Aunt Ethel, Elwood is very happy.














How beautiful it is to find out that a beautiful woman awaits you.




It's very important and I left it in your room.










It'll be a pleasure to meet Ordway.

Harvey, I told you about Aunt Ethel Schoven. She's a good old friend of mine.



























Your uncle embarrassed us in this house for the last time!






Wait, take your time, darling.

I'll do what I should have done a long time ago.

















It was very nice.




It's very important.












Are you there, my dear?



Judge! I'm so glad you called.





We've completely forgotten the judge lately.








Okay?

She says it's very important.





Chapter one.

Wait for me here, Elwood, darling.









Don't call that, it's an old number.





He's old, but still sweetheart.

























Of course. I'll be happy to see him out.






- It's beautiful here, isn't it, Vita?
















When did you first notice anything unusual about your brother's behavior?














































Sometimes, I see this big white rabbit myself!




































- You don't need them. If you try to get out the window, the siren will work.














Police! Why do we need the police?











Okay, honey, but hurry up.






- Where do you go? I needed you!






Of course! It's an old trick!


















You're the last person I'd want that to. You know that, Dr. Sanderson!



















- Nice to meet you, Miss Kelly.



- I'd love to. But there was another charming girl here. She asked me to wait.










- There's been a mistake. You don't have to.



- Okay. Goodbye.



Mr. Dowd, I take a bath every morning before work.





Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.


You're very beautiful, my dear.



- I want you to meet my best...


- Yes, thank you very much.



















After all, it's for the best.





















Vita doesn't have to worry about me.


I always tell Vita that you don't have to worry.













She was very excited about this big white rabbit Harvey.




























Let Vita take care of it.












Let's do it another time. We'll be very happy.








I want you to be friends with my dear friend...

- Yeah, yeah. - Okay, I'll see you later.
























I'll be happy to buy you a drink.





















Is that a new word?


But Harvey's not only a fart, but also my best friend.

That's sweet.


Do you think, Mrs. Chumley, that's not very good?


























That's very kind of you, Mr. Dowd.

If you call me, call this number. Don't call that, it's an old number.


One second, darling.


What about the woman with the big white rabbit?


- Okay.




















- Honey, let me say...
- No, honey, it's not yours either.



Must be a new fashion.


























Sorry, honey, you're gonna have to go without me.













It's always very big.

























- I got a big rabbit. - Yeah, I know.

I'm old, but I'm not that old.









- What happened, darling?














































We need to clean it up, Judge.

















Besides, I trusted him with a big secret, and he told me everything.















They don't need men in places like this.

Mom, no matter what happens, we still have to find Uncle Elwood and lock him up.


He won't tolerate it. We have to sue them, Judge!








I don't want that crazy girl.
I'm looking for another lunatic. - We need to get him back to Chumlis Rest.




























- Thank you very much.

















































- Okay, Doctor. Why did you send him away? Why do some people stop others from getting to know each other?
- Come on, darling.





There's been an unfortunate mistake this morning, I've already fired my assistant...
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - Please, you can just-- - I'll get in touch with you in the morning.





















- Okay, fine.


















It's gonna be okay.


I'm glad to hear that.











Okay. Hello.










Yeah, honey, Harvey's here.






Yeah, honey, Harvey's here, but he can't come to the phone.



It doesn't matter. Harvey just walked through the door.











- I'm gonna take your... brother to the hospital where he needs to be.


- Okay.


























Save your psychiatry for your new job! I don't use psychiatry. Let me give you some friendly advice.





I'm glad I caught you before you left.





- Okay.














First they're cute, and the next minute... they're gonna stab.











One is tall and small, the other is thin and fat.

One man is small, middle-aged, and the other is much taller and younger.

















- Don't be, my dear.
You know, Doctor, after what happened this morning, these flowers should be from you.




- That's good to hear! I'd be happy to help him, too.

Well, I've been fighting reality for 35 years, Doctor. And I'm happy to say that I finally won.







And I was very happy to see him.


























A beautiful blonde named Mrs. Smefills... and her companion sat at a table across from us.


Then her companion led Dr. Chumley back to me and Harvey and explained that it would be better for Dr. Chumley if he... stayed out of it and took care of his business.










You don't believe the doctor was talking to a big white rabbit, do you? Why?















But at least one sound, hmm, and you're gonna get out of here. Okay. Keep dancing.




And Dr. Chumley better be there, buddy, or it's gonna get worse! - Mr. Wilson?









I'm ready to live my life again.
Almost ready.






Maybe it's better to go somewhere else.




- Okay, Mr. Dowd, if you like.


I'm sure Dr. Sanderson will be happy to dance with such a beautiful girl.

- Okay.









- Okay, if you'd like.







I have so much to do.




Harvey and I... we're both flourishing in these happy moments.


And they tell us about the great terrible things they've done... and the great beautiful things they're going to do.




The same people come back sometimes, but it's... it's jealousy, my dear.
There's a little envy in even the best of us.
And that's bad, isn't it?








Ed mixed whiskey with gin and he... well, I thought he needed a ride.

"Good evening, Mr. Dowd." And I turned around... and saw the big 6-foot rabbit, who stood leaning on the torch.


























Bad.













- Okay, Lyman. I'm just afraid I won't be able to stay long.









































































Which part of our old Earth did you find this creature in?









- from Cleveland this morning. - And she did it?


























There's a small country house near Acron... in a maple grove. - Green, cool, beautiful. - It's my favorite tree.
And I'd go there with a beautiful woman.















It's gonna be great.









Last time I saw him was with you.











And my sister did all this one morning?











Okay, thanks.

- Wait here, Vita, darling.


You're excruciating, darling. And this could be a hard test.













Why are you all standing here? I thought all I needed was a place...























- Good to see you.



- Yeah, thanks. It's okay.







Dr. Sanderson, please don't give a shit what I said this morning.



Now if you'll excuse me, I have work to do.







An element of argument in any conversation is a good thing. So everyone's taking part and nobody's gonna throw it away.


Miss Kelly, you know, when you hooked my flower... you made it beautiful.
"So is my friend, or is she like this, "but she is more beautiful than she has ever been in her life!"


My dear, you are more beautiful than ever. I'm happier than ever, Mr. Dowd.

And this rabbit thing must be a good thing.






As far as I'm concerned, I don't think I need her. Did you hear that, Judge?













I wish it wasn't tomorrow!











Vita, will you tell Dr. Chumley to say goodbye to my old friend for me?









- Sit down, my dear.


Calm down, darling.














































- Nice to meet you, Mr. Lauren.

And there's my good friend Judge Gaffney. - Hey. Hey.







Would you and your brother like to come and have lunch with us? Of course I'll be glad.

When will you be happy?


We'll be waiting for you and happy to see you. - Really, Vita?





Nice to meet you, Mr. Lauren.















And always big tips.



They're yelling at me," Watch the road!












Nice to meet you.






Don't, darling.




- No, but we're ready, Mrs Simmons.









- Okay, honey.







- Vita, it's okay.



Now I'm not gonna give up on sleep, no matter how big the animal is!



Okay, Vita. Wait, I'll take the hat and the coat.







They're a beautiful couple, aren't they?






A very nice couple.
And you're a beautiful couple, too.






















Hurry up, darling.












I was in the last movie in your script.


This pig is not a couple, sweetheart, and no matter how much money he has.




Yeah, I'll put it in the front. Okay.







- Lloyd Barnes, big boss.









It's gonna be a great movie, Mr. Steele.














Isn't this a good place? He's not contagious.












Old fox. I make money, and you wait ten percent.







Your hits ended before the war, and your last painting... shit.




One day I'm gonna surprise everyone by writing something good.



Remind me to buy you a new tie.





Everyone's in the room until the last minute.


For the last ten years, he hasn't been able to remember a line.


















I'll drop by in the morning, wake you up at ten o'clock.

















I need to read a book.
















Thank you so much, but I have a date.









I need to read this book, and I'm tired.

Is that all you need?
What a... important role.


There's no too much sacrifice for immortality.

































One day she looks out the window and sees a new bodyguard. This moment is well described by her eyes.





























He refuses to talk to her, even though she's willing to do anything.
























He's good, he's self-sufficient, he's very calm, he lives with his parents, with a good job.










Okay.
Here you go, please, and thank you very much.

Good night, and thank you again.
And good luck to you.









































If that's all you needed, why take her home?


























































- Nice to meet you.

























































How would you feel if you had to go in for questioning at 5:00 in the morning?







But he was a good officer and the subordinates liked him.






I need to sleep two dozen white roses for a girl.









All right, sir.

































Beautiful face.





You can stay calm for a while.




But, of course, I'm a better storyteller.




























- Hello. - Good morning.















But it's a pleasure to meet you.





It's a good thing you liked my face.
Without you, I'd be in big trouble.















It's a good thing we didn't make it.







Is that bad?























It would be better to meet in a more favourable atmosphere.







Okay.












First thing in the morning, he came to the station.



We investigate murders in less than two hours, even in more complex cases.



It wouldn't be bad.











Okay, go on.





















The first impulse was to grab his hand, try to weaken the capture.


I've had a lot of experience in this kind of thing.





We creative people have a lot of respect for corpses.












Tell me you have to look for someone like me, but without artistic temperament.







I'm glad you're not a genius.










Okay. But to me, you're more attractive, even though you're less intelligent.




Okay, Martha, I'll see you in the morning.













































I'll be ready in a minute.


You're the most beautiful, aren't you?



- I just need your money.































Beautiful princess. The noblest of all. You are welcomed by a humble peasant.























You have to do that sometime.












I didn't expect any new information from you. It's just that some facts contradict your original testimony.


















































































I've never been so happy.




And he was willing to charge me.
He's a good businessman who wants to get married.
You'd better think about being thorough.










I took it this morning.










































Honey, are you okay?


- Good boy. - What did she take me for?

Honey, I think I've read this before.






Deeks needs you, Laurel.
















Maybe it's for the best.
































How's the last chord?


















How do you like it this morning?







Good to see you.





Nice to meet you.













Yeah, it's a beautiful place.



















Then he comes to breakfast with a bunch of crumbs, so sweet and kind, that I...


























You don't need excuses, and I need a new pair of legs.









Turn it off, sweetheart, and go back to sleep.























A good love scene has to be about everything but love.







All I needed was a little push.






I didn't think it was important.






There's gonna be a little party at Paul's. We invite our chosen friends and enemies. Then we'll get on a plane to Las Vegas and we'll get married by now...




That's the best.

Effy, it's okay. You can vacuum both apartments tomorrow.










Laurel, you'll be happy.


I'm only gonna teach the kids what's good.
























He's Deeks Steele. And if you love him, you have to accept the whole thing with the good and the bad.









We have to wait until something good happens.





He's ready.
















































It tastes great.


Your table is ready.

















I took him this morning.














- What's wrong with the script?




















Do you need Ms. Grey or Mr. Baker?















I told you, my opinion doesn't matter.

























































Okay, I'll take the ring.


















We're leaving. You're gonna run away at the first chance you get?






- Deeks, I've been looking everywhere for you. I have... good news.


























It's a job he called "The Big Game" and history tells us that a lot of people are the victims of this game.



Kim was willing to risk everything for a copper coin... or a good friend.




Red Beard has good taste, oh, flower of pleasure.









































Yeah, a little sahib.



All right, friend of the world.


Someday you're gonna be a good dealer.










































If you're hungry, you have to hurry.














It doesn't matter anymore. My eyes are much older than those glasses.

I'm tired of these monks: old, new.




Now, please fill up this little bowl.
Little bowl?





Your God's man has a big belly.



































He needs to be taken care of.


















I'll give you a message that needs to be delivered.



























I may have a few more rupees for you, little friend of the world.


She's younger and prettier than all your former elected women.

Redbeard... trusted the boy with an important message... on which many lives depended.
And although Kim didn't understand... what those five little holes in the parchment meant... to him it was the beginning of the Big Game.































When I was little, I was afraid of trains too.






- We're in big trouble, sahib.




It's good to see you, but what are you doing here so far from your place?



































- I'm so hungry, I'm ready to eat a horse.

























Such a beautiful boy, but I'm afraid he's sick.












You really are a good assistant.








With Kim and Lama was literally all mankind... from the last of the poor to the maharajs... walking on the Great Riding Way with proud dignity... accepting honors from the passing men, and giving alms to the beggars.













It's just another little creek.






It's just that there's a lot of evil in this soul.













After a miracle with a snake, the boy's heart was born... a true love for an old priest.

Kim, inspired by the new faith... found joy in serving God's man.















Not only a red bull on a green field... but 900 devils and a colonel on a big white horse.







Stop, you little savage!


































He died in Lahore when I was a kid.













That's what my father said to a woman he told me to take care of me when I was little.




Your father was a good man, I'm telling you.
And a good soldier when he wasn't drinking.














If you need more proof... here's his skin in a place where the sun hasn't burned her.
You did wrong to an old man... because my heart reached out to you.













Best schooling at St. Xaver's School in Lucknow.



































- First company!







That was the last straw, O'Hara.









Rubbish is more expensive.



































































Trust me, friend of the world, I'm doing you a big favor.








The child is ready to play polo when he is barely born.



But first of all, he needs to be taught.

- I think it's time we trusted him with the Big Game.











That's good.
That's very good.





I've never seen a more devil than you.


























I'm sure you'll do anything to make him feel good.
































Colonel Crighton has high hopes for you.
But I still have so much to learn.




























You must always believe in God, my sister.





Just one little annu.


My brothers and sisters are very small and hungry.

Just one little anna.













































He doesn't need it anymore.

The first time I killed a man was when I was 15.






























Big game.












































All right.








It's part of the Big Game, Mr. O'Hara.




Sleep well, sahib.



First, the largest fragment connects with the other two... on the right... and on the left.
























Good night.

Two Muslims, four Sadhus, one Bengali, three Afghans... 14 old silicon guns, 6 Yatagans... 13 double-edged swords, 5 double-barrel pistols...











Thank you, darling, but there's nothing here that I want.






It would be of great benefit to a doctor like me.
















Is he ready yet?






- Thank you very much, Mr. Farley.







Doctor, allow me to introduce my apprentice... who took my first year.











Maybe this time... the honored doctor will drive me in a wagon through this beautiful city.



















One small, about five feet, four inches, his turban moved to the left side... he wears one earring.


Very good.

The time will come when you too will take part in the Big Game... and then you may need it.























I'll take care of that little thief.



















Largan spoke very well of you.
























We've got the evidence we need.








And his mind was as big as his stomach.




















































Aren't I in the Big Game?
The first duty is to obey orders.

Look at the last busted horse.











And I'm not in the Big Game?









Good boy.




They're very happy because today the one they're waiting for has reached the pass.



























He came to us the next morning...





































You're in big trouble.
























So much courage in such a little boy... there's a secret here.














What do you want?











You're gonna go down to the valley, tied to your horses... but it's gonna be a little bit of an inconvenience compared to what's gonna be... when I present the evidence and you're gonna have to answer some questions.















I often didn't find good food for you.



















Return to the path of knowledge... and then, son of my soul, you will be ready to enter... a new, better world.

















When a young child played well in a heavy polo game... he could get caught in peace.



























I don't think you enjoy hunting much.



I'm sorry Callie died. What, bad hunters?
No worse than usual.







- Is it bad this time?


- He was a good guy.
- The best. I'm gonna miss him.





- And ready to pay well.







I know you want to see him, but isn't he better where he is?











Happy is the one who's considered the best in his business.

























If a woman is ready to go to the jungle, then she's up to something, believe me.



















His last letter came from here.












He may be alive and in captivity, but the odds are very small.

She's been through a lot lately.













- A map? - His last letter is addressed to me.

















- Exactly, so we need your help.













- Oh, that's nice.







That's a very good argument.
I'm willing to pay as much as you want.




With good equipment and your help, we have to make it work.






- It's a lot of money.













No one's ever gone west of Kaluana village, but I'm willing to take a risk for the money.

























Because it's better to go on the road with the person you like.


Okay.






Why am I willing to risk my life for my husband?





But I've met people who are willing to sacrifice themselves without understanding what they're doing.









I'll meet you at Mr. Eric Masters' office tomorrow morning.




She's a good woman.







- Mrs. Curtis is bad.



























- Do you need a trophy?









Curtis' card starts where the big card ends.




I know that in the last five years, none of the whites have come near their village.


























































































But not for someone who can satisfy their wishes. Everyone's having fun at this moment. Everyone's trying to grab more of what he wants, because everyone wants to.

















- What do they want from us?













Pood salt is a hundred times more expensive for them.
















He says he's seen about a dozen hunters in the last two years. And he's sure he remembers Henry Curtis.







If we have to stop here, we'd better put it in the shadows.













Or it's better to make a stocking out of Alan.
He's not a bad man, Beth.









































- Good night, Beth.


It doesn't matter!


























Good idea!

- Good idea!
Dinner's ready! Lunch!



















I don't know, but he needs our guns to go to unexplored land.
















Okay.












It doesn't matter.





























It doesn't matter if we move on or come back?


As we return, we can hire new porters.







- So far, it hasn't worked out so well.




















That's good.
























You don't have anything better than that either, do you?










































There's a lot of hard work going on here.






































- Okay.








It'd be better if there was a water well here.





And you, I see, are in a good mood.


























You didn't love Henry and you didn't treat him very well.

















It's the first game we've met in weeks.




























They say he's a cruel and bad king.

















You'd better keep your weapons ready.















And the old shaman wears the same one.

- Nice shot.


















Take a deep breath, okay?



The sooner we get out of here, the better.
























Excellent, darling.









You're not working tonight, darling?



















Honey, please.





Okay, be there.









Sweetheart, once again 3633, please.





















- I'm here for you, honey.







Do you want me to drive your car, honey?











Come on, honey.















She's terribly ill, my wife.





























































































Okay.






- Okay.







- Okay.










































































































- Tomorrow morning.

































We can answer anything except the last one.



















































Too big eyeballs don't match.





- It wasn't a bad idea.

















- Good morning.































Oh, that was bad.























Is she okay?
Why do you suspect the bad?






































I need a list of all the things sold and where they're sold.




I need the truth.







You have to be very rich.
What a nice office.
















He needs papers.










I'm a poor woman, but don't insult me.


































Just cute. She's all cute.
























Reminded me of my last wife.







When was the last time you saw her?








In the first week of June.











She came to the reception on the morning of May 23rd.

























Honey...























We almost bought a new one.















































- Have a nice day.








No, darling.






























































She was beautiful.


















- Okay.



- Good idea.










- Yeah, but she called him "honey."






































- Okay.





- You were asleep, darling.




































You asked her to introduce yourself to an old friend.





































When we first met, I said our department was only interested in facts.














































































Well, Lieutenant, don't tell me it's the first time you've heard about rent.




















































- Okay.

Well, we're both ready to race.


































It's okay.


I checked him out, they say he's not a very good lawyer.



Honey?






























Good morning.







































































You know, my last tenant, Shakespeare's actor.




















You can never tell what the old hag is thinking.











It's very important! Wait a minute.





Now he's perfectly happy talking to himself.


















Honey, no.

- I know, my dear.






Easy, my dear.








- That's impossible, my dear.

















I don't care about arithmetic... say $20,000.


















- Okay.






















Okay, doc.











- Okay, okay.









- Okay.




Sorry it's late, but I need you.



































Prison is a beautiful alibi.









That's better, Mrs. Shanway.




And good morning.










- Good morning.
- Good morning.


























































We are happy to have a wise priest in our ranks.


















It's worse than gangsters or troubles, hunger, fire or war.








































The last time I almost caught him, he looked the same, and he had the same sword.


























But if I get it without killing, the better.







Isn't that beautiful?















































The biggest mistake I've ever made!




















































So you have to be wary of a woman's story.













A man must forget bad things and believe in good things.









But she held on well, she couldn't be with her husband anymore.



She's never been so beautiful.
And here's what my beautiful wife said to the thug, in front of a helpless husband?














After those words, I was prepared to forgive him for assault.





































Okay, then.



Before that, when I wanted to do something bad, I did.
That's why I suffer less.

You're already mine, but I want more.























I don't need that shameless prostitute. You can have her.
I'd rather lose her than a horse.
























































Dogs are better in this world.



















How about a little one?











































































One, two, three,

















- I don't need money!




























































Good night!
Good night... fuck you!














The first time I didn't want to. Remember?






















A lot of married people don't know each other any better.

We're first!








































































I'm gonna have to find a new place, huh?


A new place, no better and no worse than anyone else.




























"Dear lady, I got your new address.
I'm glad you have good owners.
















All right, monsieur.

Very good.


































But you don't have to be shy of me. By the way, you shouldn't be embarrassed. You're so beautiful.














































Big love, real love

















One day, burning with impatience,
At the appointed time, he wore a new hat.
He's full of hope, he's happy:















That's very nice of you.










You'll feel better.






It's better for you.

You're beautiful!
































We'd better break up.






You know, it's a big apartment.









What's wrong with that? - Nothing.









Maybe it's better... I bought...






- Don't worry, honey.



































My dear, don't be nervous.



It's a good thing we're gonna stay... good comrades.




My dear Alfred. What time is it?







Oh, Alfred, it's good to be good friends.
There you go. It's better this way.

That's awful. All right, at least the coachman waited for me.





Let's dance first waltz.


You're crazy, darling.

We'll talk about it tomorrow. During the first waltz.





- Good book?




You've been very beautiful lately.












Good night, darling.
Good night, Charles.






It was very nice.







There are periods of calm when spouses live as good friends, and other periods are less peaceful.

And that's even good. Right?





That's good, because... you see...
If there hadn't been periods of calm, there wouldn't have been periods of... less calm.






You girls from good families, come to us clean...


























































Honey, they don't like women like that.
True love needs purity and truth.












































It's good here, isn't it?


Is it so important for you to know that?


























































Are you ready?























































We can get ourselves a little nest where I'll come when I'm in Vienna.



It's a beautiful house with a beautiful parade, a shredded park, glittered copper pens, and an impeccably clean ladder.































Inspiration is a good memory.
You, I have a bad memory.












































































































- Wait, Charlotte. - Okay, monsieur.
























You're beautiful, talented...
































- Sit down, dear Count.








Sit down, my dear Count.



Okay.


































Love in the morning... no.
























We need to talk about our souls. Okay.









I was happy to meet you, my dear Count.





























































Less.
Less than five minutes ago.










Yeah, it's Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. It's about five o'clock in the morning.





Two bullets in the back and one in the abdomen. It's not a big deal.









Maybe they weren't good, maybe they were too good. All I know is they weren't for sale.













































Old coach, freaking out from time to time.





Need a role for Ledd?






- Sorry, I didn't think it was good.








































Terrible good guy, assistant director.













The best things on earth were written with an empty stomach.
Once you feel a good life, you're done.


It's the best thing that can happen.



Honey, maybe you need another agent.






Beautiful. Really, why not break up with Hollywood?



At the end of the alley of this mansion, there was a big empty garage that wasn't working.













It's like an old woman from Darwin's Big Hope book.
It's Miss Havisham in an old wedding dress and a holed veil that left her out of the world because she ignored him.

















I need help with the coffin, call me.







- Doesn't matter.
I need a white coffin made by atlas; white or dark - pink.






















Then they opened their big mouths and began to speak, speak, and speak.
























Yeah, you want a list of my work?


The events of my last scenario took place in the drylands.






































- I have good eyesight.




Sometimes it's interesting to know how bad a scenario can be.











The ritual was performed with great dignity.










That's what makes him beautiful.
- But you need a little more dialogue.













December, 21st.







It doesn't matter.



I'll pay as much as I need.













- I'll come tomorrow morning.








It's not a beautiful palace, but it'll be fine for one night.










Of course, I've turned to a good path.

Good night.










The last path of the old chimpanzee was in the greatest seriousness, as if she had buried her only child.
























I think it's a great idea if we're going to work together.



















Even worse, she sat next to me all the time, staring and watching. I was afraid I'd hurt her dear child.




It's better to take her out and go straight to...






Okay.





















How beautiful, isn't it?

We didn't need a speech.



















- Wipe out the ashtray, darling.


- That's what I said. - Okay.




- Not now, honey. I'm playing.


- I need the money.



















Max, what's the best men's store in town?
I don't need clothes and I don't need them.








- I don't need a tuxedo.
Of course I do.


- For parties and New Year's Eve.



- But it's more expensive.


In the last week of December, the rains began.


It rained through the old roof of my room.


This room, the only place I was myself, but it was better than sleeping in a raincoat and a halo.
































A big bed like a golden boat.
Beautiful place for the queen of the silent movie.























Valentino said, "The best place for tango is a cafeteria." Come on.














Okay.





How beautiful next year will be.












To buy us everything we need.








I'm not who you want me to be.
You want Valentino, the one who deserves a big star.







On New Year's Eve, there was a noisy party in his apartment in Las Palmas.





















- Nice party.





- Sure, we're here till morning.

- Yeah, the old couch's free.




















- That's so sweet.












- That's probably why it's good.







New Year's Eve. Let's have fun.










You're wearing the form of the Coldstream regiment. Besides, you need to make a phone call.






Life can be beautiful.
Max, this is Gillis, I need your help.


Put my old clothes and my car in my bag.












Happy New Year!





















Happy New Year, Norma.
Happy New Year, honey.


I'm sorry to bother you again, but I need Mr. Gillis.





















It's a beautiful day.
Turn around, darling, let me wipe you out.






Because I've never been so happy.












- It's so good to see you.

I'm sorry about New Year.









What's the good news?





























- Where have you been for so long, darling?






Her first number was always McSennet.






It's okay, it's okay.

Okay.
















- And he said it was very important.
- Of course, it's very important for Mr. DeMille to call me in person.









I've been waiting 20 years for this. Let DeMille wait until I'm ready and agree.
Three days later, she was ready and willing.








It doesn't matter.



















All right, call Wilcockson.
























You don't know how beautiful Norma Desmond was when she was 17. And brave and witty. Better than today's actresses.







- Thanks, honey.
Oh, good afternoon, darling.

- Good to see you.
We've had a lot of fun the last time.







































Thank you very much, Gordon. Thank you.













- Bad script, right?
There's a lot of good scenes out there, but it's gonna be a very expensive painting.
It doesn't matter.


It wouldn't be any better if it were possible.

- It's all set, Mr. DeMille.
- Okay.










He had a big bungalow on his wheels.




















And their first meeting.



Six o'clock in the morning?




- Good for you.

























The old team is back together.

The old team?
- Goodbye, darling.







I'll buy him five cars if I have to.



She definitely decided to be ready. Ready to stand in front of film cameras that aren't gonna happen.
- Honey, are you here?



I came to say good night.


- Good night.

- Okay.


- Okay.
- You better go to bed, too.














My nerves are about to burst.




Good night, darling.




He was very interested in me, and we started working together at the studio at night in her cozy little office.




- Okay.
- What's good?






Seriously, that's good.









It's an old story.




If we correct page ten while the water boils, okay?
Okay.



















- Good job.





At night, you weep in big roles and glory.

What's wrong with being on the other side of the camera?





- It's my new shampoo.




Fine, twenty-two years.















Because she has to be ready for filming in the painting.







- Yeah, I did all her first movies.





You see, I was her first husband.









































Betty Schaefer is engaged to Artie Greene, my best friend, and she loved me.
















What do you want?










You'd better come over here and see for yourself.


I did it because I need you.
I need you more than ever. Look at me.










- No, it's gonna be okay.









Have you ever been to the old Hollywood Palace?


























Only here is lonely and she needs a companion.















- Look, honey, be practical.



It may not be very beautiful.
You and Artie, you can be a beautiful couple.

You better go home.




Thank you, darling.






Tell me you're happy, too.








Thank you for the beautiful clothes and all the trinkets.














Okay.













- The studios just need a car.
- What do you want?



They need me.











There's nothing wrong with that unless you're trying to be a 25-year-old.

















It was so loud, it was like opening a new supermarket.











I have important information.




Are you ready?






















Okay.
- It's all set, madam.






- All set?





Are you ready, Norma?





I'm ready.






I can't play, I'm very happy.


I mean, I'm happy to be back in the studio and make a movie.







So, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready to shoot.
And all those pygmies were chasing little elephant Elmer they were chasing him through the jungle.


The only way to save Elmer was to cross the big river.

If he had sailed, he would have been dragged into the waterfall by a large, large, high waterfall.






Poor little girl hasn't slept since 3:00 in the morning.
Okay, especially since Elmer's elephant.







Beautiful.

I'd rather have him discharged.







Okay, you'll come.



- Good night, kids.
Good night, Doctor.





















Everybody ready?
They'll be ready by the time we arrive.











When I saw that she wasn't well...









Are the syringes ready?

Oxygen ready?








It's all set.



It's okay, calm down.








It's okay.





It's okay, it's okay.


You'll thank me for this in the morning.



I think she's gonna be okay, but we need to keep an eye on her.



I hope she likes herself tomorrow morning.







- Good night, Doctor.
- Good night.
Good morning, Dr. Cameron.
- Good morning, Dorothy.




























I'm glad you got my telegram.



- It's beautiful here.




No, I think you should call the police.
An attempted suicide must be reported to the police even under an alias.













Well, I'd say your life isn't as bad as you imagine.















But I want you to do what you think is necessary if you think you need to report it to the police.




You don't have to miss it here.



















I'll explain it to you in the morning. I'm running late.


Okay, we'll talk about it in the morning.



You canceled your date and it must have been important.
Very important.










- Okay.







Make up some happy ending. You know how.














Let's leave Julie alone, okay?








- Thank you very much.

















Okay.




































I've grown a lot older in the last five minutes.







Honey, this is just the beginning.









Yes, of course, darling, but not now.
My father needs me, he's old, his days are numbered.



































Well, my dear, I see you have company here.






















Don't be so inconvenient, my dear.















































"My father is old his days are numbered."





There can be no doubt about that, my dear.





Good night, Dr. Cameron.














How little wine you need to lose your mind.


































Better answer that.






































How much I need you right now.































Feeling better?






















Honey, you have to remember.



































Oh, my darling.








- All I wanted to do was make you happy.
We're happy.



































Honey, listen to my advice, drop me.




Maybe you'll feel better.
Maybe, but it could get worse.


- That's the worst thing that's gonna happen?















But I need a prescription.











We have the best offers in town.
We have a very good car right here, just for 875.

And this is a real, beautiful truck.


Sorry, buddy, that's the last word, take it or leave it.







New deal, new dollar.




That's a good name.



















See you in the morning.




























That's the front page news.















He realized that we need to get rid of the car quickly.
































- It's okay now.












































































If it's the worst thing that's ever happened to him, he'll live to be 100 years old.






My car's in good shape.

Well, I'm glad to see you both are so happy.








We're interrupting the program to give you the latest news.







I need your phone.

























Pablo's my old buddy.



- Okay, thank you very much, sir.








































We have $13, and we need it for another.
Okay.

What do you need them for?
- We need them for...



Okay...

Son, you don't have to go to Mexico.








Justice of the peace, the best cottage for the honeymoon west of Pecos.



















And let all your troubles be small.






















Oh, honey, I really want you to hug me.

I need you to tell me that you still love me despite what happened.









You're only making yourself worse.



- Okay. Okay.


The strange murder of Lennington remains the biggest mystery.







- Good night, Mrs Carter.


Good night.
- Good night.
According to Captain John Voight of the San Francisco Police Homicide Unit, the information provided on Mrs. Lennington's mental illness sheds new light on the murder, which has so far been...














I'm telling you, there's nothing new.



Okay, if you want to listen, ask for another radio.





































Yeah, sure, that's good.
















We need to pay for crossing the border.



















And today, with the current prices and all these things, it's gonna be more expensive.





That's all I can give. That's my last price.





Okay, we'll take it.



































It's a good Italian.









You're American citizens, all you need is a walk through the gate.






























Okay.
All you have to do is pay a thousand dollars.


























I feel so bad.





First van.

Honey, there's nothing else to worry about.










It was so bad and it worked against me.































Okay.
Okay, you're right.














































































Okay, son, your little walk is over.
















- Good enough to send flowers.



Is he good enough for visitors?




I'm not gonna see a nice friend! He's just looking at the whug.


















Am I the sweetest, the whitest and the darkest?

You, queen, all sweeter, all darker and whiter.




Am I, tell me, everyone nicer, all browner and whiter?
You're beautiful, there's no argument.
But the king is all nicer, all darker and whiter.

But tell me, how can she be nicer to me?
Admit it: I'm the best. Overtake the whole kingdom of ours!
And the king is sweeter, yet darker and whiter.






She's gonna put up with less.












If you're an old man, Uncle will be forever.



If you're a red girl, be a lovely sister to us.




The brothers are a lovely girl.





We'd all like to take you.


















Am I the sweetest, the whitest and the darkest?
You're beautiful, there's no argument.

Seven rich guys have the one that's nicer than you.






We loved you, and for a lovely treasure--

Am I, tell me, everyone nicer, all browner and whiter?

You're all cuter and whiter and whiter.








































Am I the sweetest, the whitest and the darkest?
You're beautiful, there's no word,
But the king is sweeter and darker and whiter.



































Thank you very much.

Yeah, looks like we should really get to the point.






Of course, money. And quite a lot of money.








Well, okay...
Dear Mr Hardy, there's one more thing.












- And the most beautiful yacht.










Gentlemen, I wish you a good day.





- I think we need a boat crew.







- Have a nice day.


It's a good thing we still have the money after all these taxes.





























You don't understand, there's an air tank inside, and when you open the valve, the raft becomes big enough to accommodate four.



The first thing I think about is you.

















He's actually good, but no country wants to take him in.
He's willing to do anything to get home.








I just need a country.






You have good laws!



















Good morning, guys!


Good morning, guys!












It's all set. What?



And you don't need a passport to get there.


- Good morning, Stanley.
- Good morning, Ollie.









Stanley, it's beautiful-- the sea, the sky, the sun, you and I are alone on the waves of a boat.


He's our very, very good friend.






You need glasses. It's already open.















I want you to know how happy I am that you're my friends.
















I want my meat that's gone with garlic.














Oh, I forgot to tell you, I fixed the steering wheel to the right course.












































































































Everything's fine. Okay.






It's not that bad.
Still in good condition.









Here's the man who survived the ship's crash, and he was fine.


Our modern Robinsons Cruz is used to their new life.
Using the latest scientific methods of planting, they conquered wild lands.









She's having a big day today.

And second of all, she's expected in court on an important case-- she's marrying Lieutenant Jack Frasier.

Oh, honey, I'm so glad.

You're not gonna fight over three little quarters of an hour.
The wedding is so important, and before I get down to business, I want...








Miss LaMour, Lieutenant, marriage is the most important thing in the world.



Of course, darling.


I don't know more pleasure if you were at home all the time, but if you've been swimming for ten months a year, what do you expect me to do?
So I can swim behind your little barge?

- Calm down, Your Honor!










Guys, it's good that you're here, I need to talk to you.
Where have you been the last couple hours?






I was downstairs, near the lagoon, and I thought I heard the engines of the big ship.



























Come on, my little princess, I'll show you your boudoir.






My dear, these are the remains of a good ship.









- Come on, my dear.












Good idea.



Oh, good night, Ollie.












I'll make an amazing omelet this morning.

Here I am designing the most beautiful villa with huge rooms.




- And she's beautiful.
























Wow, you're so beautiful today.


























It's so beautiful!

This is the best house I've ever had.
I'm so happy that...





Okay.



Our old friend Dolan found an island that wasn't on the map.


I guess I've already figured out my feelings, but I'm ready to give you another chance.




Okay, I'll be right there.
This is your last chance.



He looks like a man ready to steal our island.



Which one of you was first on this island?







According to international law, the island belongs to the country whose citizen came first.












The first was Antoine.



I went to this island first.
- Okay.





























Okay.


Here and now we are forming a government to save our island." - What kind of government do we need?









































Mr. President, now we need to come up with a flag.



Okay, but we need a logo.










And we have no choice but to recognize this new sovereign State.


















I'm gonna kick him out of here, even if it's the last thing I'm gonna do.





If you need my advice, Mr. President, we need to call the council.

















Thank you very much.









By the way, since I'm going to be president now, I need these clothes.
Keep me company, my dear.











It's a good thing they made me a radio.














I need you!






















































Sherry LaMour finally married her lieutenant, and they're on the verge of a long, happy life.

All right, all right.









It's very nice of Frasier and Sherry to drop us off here on our own real island, and also to provide us with food and everyone else.

















At six o'clock in the morning, Walter's contraction began the hardest of a boxer's life.


Walter knows that every new fight is much more important to him than the previous one because he's moving fast towards mid-weight world championship and he has to keep winning.



His father was away, and he lost his mother when he was a little boy.



It's important for Walter to go to mass so something doesn't go wrong tonight.









Walter needs to eat meat.



This is Walter's second and final meal before the fight.







But for Walter, the worst thing is to expect what's gonna happen.
Soon he'll be happy when it's finally done.
His boxing supplies are carefully folded and ready for packing.









At 8:00 p.m., the locker room behind the arena began the last two hours of Walter's preparation for battle.


It was caused by the last expectations of the battle here, where there was so close and a man could barely move.
If only the fight had started, everything else wouldn't be so bad. Not bad at all.




At times like these, it's important for brothers to go out to the ring together.






















































We need to ask someone what kind of country this is.
Excuse me, madam, am I in New Zealand or Australia? I don't get it.

If I were less tall.









It's a good thing I say the words "weep" and "weep" easily.





I wonder why I suddenly got smaller.






I need to give a very important lecture. There's gonna be a lot of listeners there!

Stupid old trout!

































There is a need for incredible skill, determination and desperate stupidity!




























These things-- they don't have a price, or maybe they're even more expensive.


I hope I'm gonna be big again.










Better help me get out of here. Okay.

It would be bad for the vegetables, Your Honor. That's what I thought.












Help me up! Okay.
I need you, buddy! What is it, gentlemen? There's a deadbeat on the loose with the owner!













Okay, okay. Get upstairs.

















It's gonna get worse!






I remember who I was this morning, but I've changed a few times since then.









Damn it, it's worse than zings.

Get up, sweetheart. But here's the thing.







I'm afraid that's what happens when I have to perform! You don't have to be afraid, it's worse than just forgetting.













That's what it's for.










































What do you want here, miss?















He'll be either a nasty boy or a beautiful pig.














I don't need madmen at all.















Is that better?







I've been looking for a beautiful garden all day, and now I'm tired and hungry. That's different.


We learn something new every day.



How am I worse? You've heard it before.













It's an honor. Brilliant, Miss!






If you have nothing to do, think of something better than a riddle without an answer.







The Queen gave a big concert back then!







Beautiful! We're all artists here!


I remember my first exit. I was so shaken that the hat fell on the floor.





Beautiful, isn't it?



That's cruel! I need a clean cup.

Then you'd better be quiet.



I'm sure you'll find a better place for yourself. Of course he will, if he's lucky.



I can do better this time.










- Hello! Why are you painting these roses? You see, young lady, I had to plant red roses.










Who knows me better than you?


















































His head's off his shoulders! Beautiful! I knew you could be relied on.



Calm down, it's okay. I'm not gonna hurt you.
I need a court order.











You have to be careful when it comes to cats.















Oh, honey, you can't imagine.
I'm so glad we saw each other again.




And the moral from here is, "A good mine in a bad game is the most important thing."

Beautiful weather, Your Majesty.
















Beautiful combination, I'd say.

Then it makes me even more honored.

He's my best friend.















We went to school at the bottom of the sea when we were little.






We also had mymical experiments. Mimic was an old eel.
















First, we need to clear the bank of jellyfish.









Here, sweetheart, that's the first figure of the sea shot.
It must be a beautiful dance.


Very big, I'd say.

Thank you very much.



















Now, honey, it's probably time for you to move on.









Thank you very much.












New pudding. I don't think anyone made that pudding.






I have to fight dragons and help young ladies.










- Is this where all the flowers talk? - No worse than you.
We just don't think it's right to start talking first.





I wish she had more petals.
Then she'd be very nice.
























































We'll be with you till morning to walk hand to hand.
















Then it's better if he didn't eat as much as Morge.
He just didn't get any more. Then they're both good.

It's okay that it ends well. What's that?




































Call the first witness!
Call the first witness!
Call the first witness!













- You have to count these things in your head.














I'm a small man, Your Honor, I haven't even finished my tea.



You sang it at my concert, but now it's even worse!







Stand on your own, Mr. Stupid! I am a small man, Your Majesty.
And a bad actor, too!












It's very important.


It doesn't matter. It's important.






It's the oldest rule in the book. Then it must be the first!






You missed your last chance to stay here.






Then you don't need us anymore.



"Singy cherry," huh, honey?
























I have a lot of good friends in Paris.
A lot of very good friends.






He's too happy.



















Adam was a great accompanier.







I'm not old at all!

It doesn't matter. No, it wasn't me.









Now I'm a big boy.










There's better means.




















Adam, I'm very happy.















She was a little girl back then.













No, she's very calm.
Very calm.




It's not the expression of beauty, but it's very beautiful.

















Good morning, Theresa.

Could be better.





























I never rob guys I know less than 15 minutes.











Old Vienna.


















If you say something nice, I'm not gonna feel better, not say it, all the more so.





















First one today.
Looks like things aren't going well.


























































Good light.




Nice to meet you.









No, honey, don't come up.









I'm having a little party here.







- Eight o'clock. Okay?
























Okay.



























The more formal the reception, the less you need to process.











It's such a little prank, isn't it?

Dear lady, here's your money. I'm taking the paintings and all the good stuff.



Yeah, I need the money, but it's still not that bad.








I'm interested in your work, and I want to get to know you better.




I think you have a great talent.
What's wrong with someone supporting you, huh?


Do they feed well downstairs? - Very good.
- And it must be very expensive.




It's not expensive at all.

I wish I had something by morning.
























We have a pretty big collection at home.





- Nice, darling.





Nice, I'm with the Yanns. I need your help.







































Honey, you seem to be looking for new problems.






But I guarantee he'll be gone in four months, like that composer or that sculptor. Okay.




































Good night, darling.












































Good morning.
Good morning.


I've been working for you since this morning.







- It's beautiful.





- It doesn't matter.

He's a very old friend of mine.












That's not very nice of you.

These are very good perfumes for summer.





That's very good.





They're all so good!





Oh, my darlings!

I always ask for advice if there's anything I need to decide.












Send them to my hotel, okay?





Okay, isn't it?





Have a nice day.
Have a nice day.










I go to parties, I swallow hats, and I do a lot of other nice things.



Okay.













You know the Dear Friend Cafe?


- Okay.
There is no happier man in Paris than Monsieur Mulligan.








What's new?





When are you gonna show me the new number on the show?



Yes, darling, tonight.

Need a free man?












What happened, darling?










































It doesn't matter.













Is Sunday good in America?











At least you're a very beautiful girl.








Honey, trust me, I'm not your enemy.
I don't know what secret you're hiding, and if you need magic water to split you up, one thing I can tell you for sure.
If I'd met you sooner, you'd already know you're beautiful.













I'll be at Art School on Friday morning.



Okay.

















Good night.

- It doesn't matter.















- You're crazy. She doesn't need me.














It doesn't matter.



Isn't she beautiful?

Of course I know, Jerry, but you need more space.



Because I don't have them, and when I have them, it's a big question.












When I'm ready for her.
When my paintings are good enough to show them.







Look, you're an artist, and you're a good artist.






It doesn't matter.
Okay, I'll do it.


Oh, Jerry, I'm so glad!
















Maybe it's better that way.




































































I'm glad someone's happy.






























First thing you need to do is talk to her.




And you'll both be happy.






But it's not that important anymore.


So be happy.
- You just have to find your woman.







Jerry and I, we're so happy, aren't we, Jerry?


















I was just a little girl, and they asked Henri to take care of me if it wasn't for him...









My job is so important!

If it's important to you... I love you!








Today's the best.






























- What's wrong with that?


























It's our last night in Paris.






That little advice I gave you this afternoon.














I shouldn't have brought you here today.




I think we need some champagne.











It's too real and too beautiful.









Because the most beautiful thing in it, he stole from me.


















































- What's so good for me?


- I don't need anyone right now.
- I can get you any news that's important and not very good.



That's a great question, considering I was a key figure everywhere I could work.



I'm a very good liar.



















Because if they need you, they'll forgive you and forget everything.
But until that happens, Mr Booth, you get the best newspaper you've ever worked here.






















The sooner the better.
































And the worst part, Herbie, is there's no 80th floor so you can jump off it if you want to.










One year, and what's the big news here?


Some old jerk who claimed to be the real Jesse James until he found out he was a chicken snatcher and Gallup by the name of Shemelmacher.














Not bad, is it?



- Maybe you really need a change.










Isn't that nice?

"be prepared to recreate the clichés."






















Where's the last thing?









And when I'm ready, we'll let her go on.





I didn't go to any college, but I know what makes history good.


And you know what I learned in the first place?
Bad news sells better.
Because good news doesn't make any sense.










What did the police want in this old Indian rock town?






- Old lady, inside.










- It was a crash this morning.
















The best store in central Escudero.
















The best thing we could do was get through half of it.
You have to be very careful there.





















































- Okay.









One man, that's better than 84.
















One of the loudest stories of late.
It's been on the front page of every newspaper in the country for weeks!




















How are you? It's not that bad anymore.













It's an old place. It's been a long time.

























They'll do it as soon as possible, but everything needs to be done right.


































































I have to go.

I'd love to. But there's a lot of work to do outside.



































- Big.





















But I don't need 18 days.


















I'll find these people, Mr. Minosa, the best.



- You'd better decide with me.













We have a lot of calls to make.




Okay.









Yeah, by the way. Is there a big problem finding a night out here?
Six beautiful rooms.

































- Good morning.

























Aren't you cute?












If you don't really need this picture, I'd like to take it with me in case I forget what it looks like.



- I'm leaving on the first bus.




- You've chosen the perfect time for this.

Then I drove to Dodge City, Kansas, in a bigger, blue open car that stopped for gas.
It cost at least 4,000.


I said nothing good would come of it.





















I'm no worse than you.

All you have to do is print something in your paper.
Honey, you don't like these mountains any more than I do.














- Glad you stopped by.























Okay.
















That's how it's gonna be better read, so it's gonna stay the way it is.







































He needs to give them every four hours, right?
Give him caffeine if he feels worse, and demerol if the pain increases. Yes.

















Thank you very much.

Now I have to pay to see you.



That didn't work out so well, did it?

- They need to know everything we know.












But with these old walls... I don't even know.



































We had a big barbecue and I also gave a speech, a very good one.


It's a lot better than that.







I need help.




"The man who came to the first call for help "to lead the rescue operation."








What do you want from me?







Mr. Tatum, we're moving you to your new room.




It's an honor.
Okay.




Looks like I'm getting too old to crawl there.



- What's new?
- It's not too good.



We need to strengthen it first.

- And then we're gonna have to do cross-sectionals.



- How long does it take?








































You're gonna be the best contractor in this place, I bet.














That's the first thousand I'm gonna make.

Thank you very much.









That's better.




Good morning.








There's a new town out of tents, trucks, and trailers.

Every minute new and new cars arrive.
And all the new volunteers from all over the country.

The most outstanding of them is, of course, Chuck Tatham, the brave reporter who first made contact with Leo last Saturday.















And these people said they came here first.


Nellie, who came here first?














Thank you very much, Mr. Federber.
I'm sorry, but we have to interrupt our interviews from the scene, but now is the time for Mr. Tatham to visit Leo for the first time today.









Okay.




Beautiful..."






The best I could find in Albuquerque.



I need a picture of her with the beads.












































We've come a long way to do our job, and we'll do it.








It's like old times.
Good to see you, Mac.

















You're real pros, big city journalists.



















He's a wonderful man, and he's gonna start acting.





























Well, we're making progress, very good progress, but this operation is important every second, and I'm sure your radio listeners will forgive me, as well as Mr. Smollett, who needs to return to his post next to the storm.



















So, as I was trying to say, we didn't have any big storms.



You haven't told me anything new.



The man is underground and you need to get him out.



Well, then let Mr. Smalllett do as he sees fit and drill from above.
































What do they all want?






I think you're my best friend.


























She's so cute.







There's nothing good about it.


Good money.







I don't want their money.
All I need is Leo.


He always wanted to set things up a little bit, build tourist houses, buy a new car, put some money in a bank.




- Very good.







- It means everything's gonna be okay.








I suppose you need a drink.



- Glad you liked it.
- We have to print all the new details every day.











I thought I did something really bad.





And he's not the last dishonest sheriff in the world.








Well, Mr Booth, I sent you the report by telegraph this morning.







I'm not the reporter you want.




I'm doing what I think is right. If I have to deal with a corrupt sheriff, I don't hesitate.


























Maybe you should come back with him.

Give him good advice, Chuck.






Of course I'm ready to talk to New York.


















































That's better.

You'll get the first article in an hour.

















I would like to take this opportunity to thank the viewers for the hundreds of letters and telegrams we have received and received in large numbers.












































I'm gonna buy myself new outfits, and I'm gonna look very glamorous.



It's been the fifth night since the big storm started breaking in and piercing the way to Leo.



















You don't need a priest.
























If we don't put him in the hospital tomorrow morning, he'll die.








You'll be out of here tomorrow morning.

They won't be able to reach me by tomorrow morning.

















Chuck, I think we need to talk about tomorrow night.
The guy's gonna be released and it's gonna be a big event.

But I have to do it first.





What's the new development?


We'll release Leo by tomorrow morning.







That's not good for my story.








For example, why would we use this storm?

We need to get them out of here first.





It would be better if we weren't late.




















Yeah, well, Mr. Nagel, I'll leave him a note to call him back to New York.











Put this thing in your mouth and take a good breath.
It's morning, isn't it?

- Friday morning.




I'm ready.







In the closet in our room, in my old bag.










































- Honey, you wouldn't want me to wear things like this.











































I'm ready.




































And today you found out all about it first.








You're celebrating a new job, buddy?

























Okay, stay on the line.














Is that the best you could do?
















And he also runs a newspaper in the big city, you bald idiot.



















































I had a good pronunciation, and I got a job as a tour guide to Empire State Building.





















You want to get worse?















I was so happy I'd never forget that.







Good morning.




Okay.

















Send it in an envelope with a 10 cent stamp and become rich, famous and important.

Let's get what we need and get out of here.




























Okay, I'll tell you. He's dead!


And I'm glad he's dead, this cheap world.
























Oh, there's no doubt that rest is wonderful, but everyone has responsibilities for their work.
















I think it's best for Mr. Barnstamp to stay here tonight.
Oh, no, my dear lady.




















Beautiful investment.


Beautiful.













Good morning.

























I think he's better off.


I'm good.

















Last tree hit by a wave on the beach.

The last survivors.






It doesn't matter.





















Don't you think it's best to leave? Nope.


She better not be walking around this hill.










Good morning, Mr. Harrison.
Good morning, Mr. Adams, good morning, Mr. Palmer.














Okay.










You're very nice.


Easy.
























Very nice.

Very nice. Thank you.












Where I lived, from morning to night, I always felt the smell of exhaust gas.































Tomorrow is a good day to start, don't you agree?























Where was I arguing with you? Good question.



Okay, let him live somewhere else--










And he lit up the light with the other one and said to God, "That's good."









And God said, "That's good."


























It's okay.













I took the jeep early this morning and went somewhere.



Maybe I should go.
Look, the world around us is already too small to run away from each other.












Okay.



Some rich man built himself a beautiful home.





















We all lived under a lot of stress.














Are you happy here?

We could be happy.


































We'd better find a dishwasher, or we'll have hands like laundry.













Good night, everyone.
Good night, Charles.


What you said today made me very happy the way I used to be.




I need to talk to you right now.























Okay?

Beautiful.




It's okay, my good boy, we'll be on our way soon.













I'll pick something better.


























- Good morning.



I don't need a waiter.

































- It's the worst thing that could have happened to the hotel.

















They need to peel the buttons and--


















I don't need psychiatrists hanging around here.











The longer you stand there, the worse it's gonna be.



























I need a couple of fingerprint experts right now.


Okay.


- Hello, I need a table.






I need a table.






















- He chose a good place.








Okay.











Find a new card, you--
If they don't jump in the first hour, they don't jump at all.







Save it for New Year's Eve.



I have an important meeting and I'm late.
If they're waiting for you today, darling, you'd better walk.















I should have listened to my old lady and stayed in bed.






















He's better off.
And everybody's better off.
Looks like it's a good day.








I'm late for the second time in a week... and I don't need any more trouble with Mr. Raysman.




For Mr. Raysman, punctuality is very important.

God, I don't think he's too old.







Loneliness is the worst thing that can happen.








She has to go to work.










The one who came here first.


















- Okay.




Okay.






It's very important.




Moxar needs him right away.

- Okay.












The guy looks calm and private. Looks like he's waiting for something.



































Okay.






- The first thing that came to my mind.





















































No, I-I need to think.

































It's bad for digestion.
















































He feels important.



- It's all set, Dunnigan.


























































That's a weird name, but it doesn't matter.






































That's a good idea.


























































It's a great day for the best citizens of New York.















Mrs. Kosik, this is important.


































It's not that bad.
I know you weren't happy, but Bobby-baby...














Do you need money?



It's not that bad, is it?























- You need to lie down for a while.


































































































He's a bad man.





Well, your father's a bad man.




















Okay.
Okay.



I know this isn't the best place... but let me say a few words.




















- Okay.



















You know, she was a very beautiful girl, Robert, before all the troubles.



Well... everything was fine at first.
































You know, my philosophy... no matter how terrible everything is... there's always something beautiful out there.
Well, I mean... you go to work at 8:00 in the morning, I go at 8:30.



It's beautiful.























It's a good deal.



- Okay.
All right, send them.









I was a good mother.


Everyone thought it was bad.




































































































Looks like you and Virginia were doing okay.


It was bad.
It was bad.








































If you'd made it on time, it'd be better.









Okay.












































Can't you see he's a good man... and he loves you?












It doesn't matter anymore.





















Okay.

































































Is Harry okay?

I need to check.






You'd better be around.
















Okay.















Well, he--he said he couldn't, that-- that he would make me miserable, that would be better--















The least you can do for him is try to make him see that he's important to you.





But it's all an old story.


But he can't even confess to himself... that he ruined her beautiful dream of glory and wealth and a great career.

































I need you, I want you.





Is it big?













I saved the poems you wrote in your last letter... when you left.
I didn't get it right away, but it was beautiful.




And a soft, dark shadow, wishing for a good night...























































We need about 10 minutes to pick up the network and it's ours.













We're ready, Chief.








It's not as bad as you think.












Ten good reasons.
You must have 10 good reasons to do something.





Although I could if you gave me 10 good reasons.





It's true, but it's got a lot - a lot that's not so bad.


































And my back's been hurting lately.


When you're thirsty, the first sip just drives you crazy.




Is she beautiful?

No, I don't think you can call her beautiful.
She needed to fix her teeth when she was a kid... but then no one knew anything about it.



It's too expensive.

Maybe I could explain better... if I read more or went to church.




Although last Easter... I was on the street, posing for big people.



















Sometimes you just have to sleep, I know.






























So the worst is over.
He needs to rest now, and so do you.

We have everything we need here.
We'll move him in the morning.


You need to rest, Dunnigan.


















































At the last minute, they found out I wasn't the right person.





I'm better now.







"Dostoevsky wanted to represent a truly good man.

"But a truly good man may seem like another idiot.













































And that Tohata is now willing to pay 600,000 yen to get rid of her.









How you've been acting lately.



Tohata has a lot of influence, but


That's not bad!
I'm glad I don't know.











Good morning.







Very good.

You'd better be there.


Something I don't need to hear?
Lunch is ready, Mr. Kameda.




Would you be happy?



What a beautiful view.



















The world, the people in it, everything in it suddenly became dear to me.









I promised myself I'd be kinder and better at everything.














But I have to admit, she's very beautiful.


























Do me a big favor.










































He's ready to marry, seduced by power and 600,000 yen.






































































































































A million by tonight, okay?














































































In the first group to be shot.








His eyes seemed ready to burst and bleed.



















Bad taste!






He believed me the first time he saw me.























You don't have to pay Yen for your freedom.


























We need to ask Mr. Kameda.






























You need a good nurse.





















I was hoping that a good man, honest and kind, would eventually show up.









Attention, I have an important announcement.


















You forgot something important: a million yen.














You don't need them?































Something's been wrong lately.













































































Old house.



















But I think it's best if you two don't get married.

























































I think it's new, though.



I've been getting worse lately.



























Mom, this is Kameda, my old friend.




















Is that bad?


















But Mr. Ono said I own a large farm. And Mr. Karube said he'd give me the money in advance for it.


















Thank you, fine.

























He has great hopes for Ayako, too.






By the way, you'd better not visit him.
Especially on a good day.




























He's happy.

































She wants you to be happy.






































































It's in her letter! She wants to see you happy.

If not, it's jealousy, or worse!

























































































Are you happy?

Are you happy?

I'm glad! I take it this is our last meeting, isn't it?




Are you happy?
















She's the soul of my beautiful dream.









But this is an important time for us!

























One more important thing:





































Ready?

You won. Then it'll be yours, and I won't need it.















































She has a beautiful figure.





















































No matter what everyone says, he was a beautiful man.
He was almost too good for this world.





It's okay. All I'm gonna remember is that he was so, so good.



























I'm better now. I was released ten days ago.




"Dostoevsky wanted to represent a truly good man.
"Ironically, he chose his hero as an idiot." But a truly good man may seem like another idiot.


































Right. Taeko Nasu surprised me. But I have to admit, she's very beautiful.




















Do me a big favor.

































He's ready to marry, seduced by power and 600,000 yen.































































I'll bring them tonight! A million by tonight, okay?





















































In the first group to be shot.








His eyes seemed ready to burst and bleed.












He believed me the first time he saw me.




























We need to ask Mr. Kameda.











You need a good nurse.





It's out of the question. Attention, I have an important announcement.












You forgot something important: a million yen.







You don't need them?






















































































I think it's new, though.
































We're ready to work on the tape.





























We need to find another combination of components.










Lead of poor quality.





We need to learn to stop the process quickly in order to slow down the impulse in a few minutes.


Okay.










- All right, I'll see you in the parking lot.


















- All right, keep an eye on him.










Old Pettigrew didn't rebuild anything here?



- Big house.
Beautiful.


















Okay.
I haven't had much work lately.





- Oh, that's good.



These old English houses sometimes give people weird ideas.




































Peter, this house is bad for you.
You need to get this over with.





It's not good for you.







Old, well-known cry:



































Peter, I think you'd better stay the night here.






















Good night, sir.
Good night.














































Strange customs you bring us from the new world.
For God's sake, a beautiful cousin.


Beautiful cousin, Miss Pettigrew... you can't be insensitive to loyalty. We've been together long enough.

Ten thousand greetings, darling, dear cousin.





- Dear friend.










But anyway, the joke is the best weapon against me.











Your suit is better than your skin, and your shoes are impeccable, sir.





Oh, I insist you stay with us, dear, dear cousin.




And you, Kate, darling, make sure the Admiral's room is ready.
















I think it's a real adventure for an American to visit London for the first time.











- I hope it's not too much.

You can appreciate, dear Throstle, as a good cousin. - Thomas.







- Not very well, I'm afraid.













The messenger did bring something from Aunt Caroline this morning.







Oh, that's beautiful.



















Oh, there's never gonna be any more beautiful furniture than the early Happy.



Oh, believe me, your things will become more beautiful with time.

We are so happy to welcome you here, dear cousin.




























I wasn't ready for you to show up in my life.














- It would be very bad if it weren't.
























I... I just entered this new world.



















Tom, dear boy, show our cousin the best places in London.
Remember, this is his first trip.
Yes, Mother, if he wants to see it all, I guarantee he'll do it right.



Believe me, it can be worse.


- Oh, don't worry, darling.


Oh, it doesn't matter.






What do you say, darling?
























She's not the last one.


In fact, cousin, they're willing to take whatever they're offered.








- Tom, darling, calm down.





















I'll take you to the races tomorrow. If you tell me which horse will come first.
















































Artists have good eyes.



































- Beautiful view, isn't it?













It's a good thing you wanted to know. It'll be interesting to your family as well - what I've been doing the evenings of the past few weeks.













































































I think you're the only truly handsome person in this terrible century.




Dear Mr. Trustl, I can understand your romance impatience.



If I understand you correctly, and I think it's the right thing to do, it's the lyric, sir, and it's the best thing to talk about after a glass of punch.





































I'm sure your Grace will applaud first.

Every morning, two maids have to carry him hot water in buckets of stairs so he can wash himself.


- Every morning.
- Does he wash every morning?

Perhaps Americans need to bathe more often than other nations.


























I'll be very happy here...


























Everyone knows that Georgianna, Duchess of Devonshire, is the most beautiful woman of the 18th century, and also charmingly witty.



Your name in English history is the beautiful flower of the age of elegance.



























You know that better than I do.


















Oh, dear cousin Peter.














- Oh, dear Mr. Trustl.












Darling, dear Peter.



Any one of us needs to figure out a relationship from time to time.


















Go rest. And in the morning, everything's gonna be okay.
I don't want to stay here until morning.















It's four o'clock in the morning of the beautiful spring morning... and it's okay!
Four o'clock in the morning of the beautiful spring morning... and that's it...






It's better to dream than to really know about him.


































A huge ship... without sails and masts... and there's a big pile of towers.


Oh, it's beautiful.
The future is like a beautiful dream of heaven.


Anyway, you've seen the future... the world in which I was born and I've been able to show you how strange and beautiful it is... but it's also terrifying.













































- Easy, sweetheart.

My dear Throstle, you could knock once in a while.

Then here you are, my dear.







It's not from the amount of drinks, my dear friend.

Dear Lady Anne.
Dear Mr. Trustl.









- One corner of him, sir, but, good enough.






But I'd be very happy to see Katherine just to put her under house arrest.

And if there's anything worse, she'll get it.


















- Are you happy here?
























You don't need to hear that.


















And worse!











































Oh, dear cousin, I apologize for what my daughter said.

She just did what she thought was best for her sister, madam.


I am pleased to report that such a danger has now passed.












You're a poser, evil, filthy, little hypocrite!



Maybe I'm the one who needs to apologize...









Oh, my dear, I knew all along that you had to come back.
I kept saying it to myself every night... and every morning I thought, "Just give me one more day."
It's our last day together.
















































Beautiful.




You've been having a nervous breakdown for the last seven weeks.


Really, it's okay.









































- Good night.















































Victor Craig... 402. 402th. Report of crimes in the last 12 hours:













































What's up, Lucky?


You haven't heard from me lately.



































































































Sometimes you need to talk to someone.










































He's a friend of this little girl.




Okay, Gobbini.




We need to heat it up.























- I was told you were a little girl.
- No, I'm a big girl.












- What do you want?


















































































- Nice shot.














































Him and Gordy Miller. It's early this morning.
Jim, you're a good officer.
One of the best.








We need to call an ambulance.




















Maybe you think that makes you a good cop.































- The police need friends.











I think it's best if you leave here for a couple of days.







He needs help.
























A very good man.


What do they want?
















Anything you need, it's already said.









What do you want here?




















- We need to catch him first.


























- We need a car.




You watch the road.






































































































































































You don't have to trust anyone.










Rest at the fireplace and continue your search in the morning.




He said that only beautiful things should guide me.
























I'd do anything to help him.






















I just need to talk to him alone first.

Okay.














































It's gonna be okay.



































































Mary is beautiful.
That girl was beautiful, too.












We need to get him in the house.
































- There's something I need to tell you.















He said it was important not to waste time.













- Don't worry about me.











Okay. I won't worry.




In your job, you probably have to be tough, don't you?

















































Is she really good, Auntie?
One makeup is so sophisticated, it's just a peek... after all the barren looks she's got to make a deal with you.










See, she's happy to see you!



































Very good.

He will certainly be a good spouse for Shizu.

I'm calm about it.






And he looked at me with great interest...















I've been looking for the best...







She has good taste.




















I'm glad you came.










I gave my first concert today, but it's actually just an excuse to relax.


My mother died when I was a kid.






And that's why I'm very happy to see you for at least a little while.




















You know... if that's the case, you're gonna have to go around her tenth road.








Do you really have to run with her?












- I need you.






Are you feeling any better?



That's a good idea.















I need to hurry.






Your aunt came by this morning.





I'd really like her to marry a good man.

































To get to know the world better, you have to see it.












He's a good man.


But I don't think you can find the best.




More like I found a new brother.




What a beautiful bride!
Be happy.


I need to tell you something very unexpected... you'll probably be shocked... but I have to ask you a favor.

















Thinking about my sister is very good, but you can't come to me thinking I'm soulless.


















Are you ready to live as a nun?


















Very nice.



Makes you even more bored.





Now I have to hold my breath until I give you a sign.







This time, to count, you don't have to laugh. Ready?







Shizu, when she gets back, you need to hang out with him.




































- Make her happy.




Then you won't need me.



































































What do you think of the new marriage?





It was during a tea ceremony, and he fell in love at first sight.








How can you agree to a new imprisonment?
It's incredible to us, isn't it, dear friend?



If I accept your offer, the rumors will be worse.


















You don't have to hide anything from me.




You don't have to worry on your own, I'll help you deal with this.






























As far as I'm concerned... as far as I'm concerned, most of all, I'd be happy... to set up your life.







For your sake, dear sister, I'm ready to live my life in the shadows.









Dinner's ready.



It's better this way.





Okay!
It's better this way.













If she knew you'd decided to have a baby, I'm sure she'd be very happy.





If you have to notify someone, you shouldn't delay it.

















Thank you very much.


At first glance, you have a carefree life, but you cause compassion, madam.































Dear friend, play us something to celebrate his appearance.



Makes you even more bored.








"Michel Simon, this film that I've only made, which has brought me the greatest joy I've ever had in the theater, because I think I'll be allowed to call it the theater.



















It is a great pleasure, Madame Lucien Delil, to work with you as a singer.
















And you played me just as well.
















Madame Maria Frome is considerate and punctual, and playing so well, thank you.























































- Not very well.












But I don't drink three liters of wine a day. I don't yell from morning to night. I don't beat dishes.




















A little. - Okay, look, you go to bed and see it in your bed.



I understand you. But I hope you don't tell the first person about your wife.













- No, no! Ready.















I need a muslin.






- I need rat poison, Mr. Gayar.




- It's much worse.




- Is that a good poison?


- In that case, he's good.
Very, very good.



















- Okay, I'll see you tomorrow.






























Let's love each other, let's be happy.
















People forgive when they're old enough.


- I can tell you the same thing, and the idea of starting a new life scares me the least.

























- But without him moving, you can do a big favor.
- A big favor?





















- Well, we need something extraordinary for that.







- Leave us alone, my dear.









- If you're serious, it's worse.















I'm not going back until the last minute.

Without him, something bad might have happened in the house.

I've been naively thinking you've been doing well these last few days.

I feel awful when she sees me. - I wonder if it wouldn't be better to shoot myself in the head.















- You have a nice voice, darling. Unlike the hard-core killers, I'm interested in random killers.
- Is this the first time you've heard yourself, Master?













- Oh, of course! She was a nice and pretty girl.
















- To see the new tractor.
I don't know the train schedule, but if I leave early in the morning, I'll be back by lunchtime.
- Since I have, in principle, your consent, dear Master, can I ask you what amount I owe you to protect me?












- Yeah, why? - Because I hate this little creature that killed my brother-in-law.









Are you ready to give me 48 hours to think about it?







You have very beautiful candelabras.







"Mr. I will not wait 48 hours and inform you that, to my very great regret, it will not be possible for me to help you with your question...


I'll sign the letter as soon as it's ready, and please send it tonight.








- Okay.
- Wouldn't it be better to poison her?

- Yeah, that's the best.








- Exactly. - And yet, you just said the knife was the best of all.






Wouldn't it be better if I killed her differently?

- Okay.

- Okay. I just wanted to know what I got right.



But I killed for the first time, and obviously I panicked.





- Well, okay, I'll take it off.
- Okay. - Even though you didn't think ahead of time, that idea was on your mind.



























- Yeah, it's better for you and her.

- We can't ask for more.










Maybe now it's known, but the morning I left, no one knew.



































- Okay.





Nope. That would be good, wouldn't it?





















- That's good, that's good.


Or better yet, self-defense.


































- Yes, sir. - Okay, thanks.

- Hello, my dear colleague and friend.





The interview you gave on the radio last night made the worst impression, I won't hide it from you.






I'll tell you. President Oriol and I met this morning, and we don't agree with the idea of you dividing the killers into hard-core and random ones, which could cause public anxiety.


- Let me tell you, I'm glad to hear it. - I don't blame you for anything other than perhaps a rather sharp tone of your answer.









- Yes! How can we be sure that one day some bastard won't say to himself:
"I'm going to kill my father, or my mother, or my daughter... and all I have to do is get Obanel as my lawyer"?
























I promise you that. But I was in a good mood, we were celebrating...









- This new lawyer is gonna be famous in a month, and it's gonna be two instead of one.








If I don't lose my head at the last minute, I won't make a mistake protecting him.

- Less than the public.




























It's a good idea to close the window so you don't hear you talking bullshit.


Find yourself some wine, it'll be better for you, fool.


I'll be better.

Let's work better in the field than wear white gloves.










- I don't think so, but it's not much better.

- That's not a good sign.











- But things have been better for the last two days.
















































































- I brought your old suit and some treats.









- It's okay.





- There were a lot of very good articles in the papers about you.
- What do you mean, "very good"?
- On the front page.
And very long, with the names in big letters...









- Visitors from morning to evening!






- Well, okay.


















You can be happy!






All right, we're ready!








And I need an immediate explanation. - About what?

















First, see if you'll be my lawyer. And also for you to tell me how I have to do it.













I wanted to poison her, it's the first thing that comes to uneducated people.






- But I don't see a better way to get us out of this.











It's very important, for the moment, to see you as your lawyer.









I'm giving you an excuse, which is already ready.

And beautiful!


























It's all very beautiful.























It's a good thing this time, Your Honor, the punishment preceded the crime.





Beautiful.


























- Yeah, that's what I need to ask.







- Okay, I have a fabric store at your service.
















It's worse than he's got.














- And what did his wife do wrong that he killed her?







- Because you and I thought it was a good idea.






- Yeah, it's important.




















You don't have to ask, gentlemen, if any of you...

- But tell me, do you think you're beautiful?


Do you think you're beautiful?


- No more than you think I'm beautiful.



Whether she wants it or not, she doesn't want to do it again anyway. While a man needs to be able to do it!


























- Okay.

























































Honey.










So say something, sweetheart.







Stella, I'm not ready to meet him right now.


Fine, that's what I need!















Oh, that's good, that's right! - Another one?





You're a little full, you look like a little pussy, and it looks so good on you.



















Fine, darling.





I brought some outfits with me to meet your lovely friends.
I don't think they seem nice to you.




I don't think I'm in the best shape I've ever seen.












Okay.








You went to New Orleans to look for your happiness, and I stayed in Belle Reve and tried to keep our house.











It's very kind of you to ask me how and blame me for staying here!




You only came to the funeral, and the funeral is beautiful compared to death.





































































Thank you, darling.




Honey, would you get my blue halatika?


He was happy to be pleased! - See you later.

Honey, Blanche and I are going to dinner at Galatua and then to the night show while you play.



Honey, I'll try to borrow Blanche until you're done.











Honey, listen, tell her something nice about what she looks like.

Try to understand her and be nice to her, darling.



It's so important to her.
Okay?


Maybe we can find out more about this after all.
Honey, let's not just let her wake up first.











I need the papers.









Okay, fine.


















































Excuse me, but would I like to wear my new dress?










- Okay. Great.




- Take a new one.





I love beautiful clothes.







































I'm ready to answer all the questions.




You're such an important judge.




Okay, cards on the table.


But as far as important things are concerned, I'm always telling the truth.



















Why do you have to burn them? Excuse me.










Shouldn't, I don't need guesses!






It's right that Belle Reev eventually became a pile of old papers in your big and strong hands.



















But maybe he's exactly what we need. Whose blood should be added to ours, now that Belle Reve is lost and someone needs to protect us.
How beautiful the sky is!
































Poker is so cute. - Can I see it?








































Big and meaty, I guess.






























What a beautiful suitcase.














Nice girl.















Yeah, she's my precious little sister.
I call her a little girl, although she's a little older than me.

Less than a year.












I'm a schoolteacher, old maid.
A teacher, yes, but not an old maid.





















































Well, do you feel better?









Honey!






















So, is everything okay in Baghdad?




But I'm sorry it happened on your first day.



























On the first wedding night, as soon as we got here, he grabbed my shoes and cut off all the light bulbs.
















What makes you think I need to get out of here?








He brought me here where I'm not welcome and where I'm ashamed to be.
























A new type of person has emerged, and some tender feelings have begun to emerge between them, which we must strengthen and bear as our banner. We're moving forward in this eternal march towards anything.



















Blanche's making us some new pillowcases.
























Do you use expensive?

















Honey, there was quite a lot of gossip... in Oriola.



























































Honey... do you want it?






It's gonna work, honey. It's gonna work.

































You like these long rainy nights in New Orleans when an hour is not just an hour, but a piece of eternity falling into our hands. And who knows what we're gonna do with him?













































But darling, and you and I know that in our world, a lonely girl has a duty to contain her feelings, or she will die.





No, darling.

Come on, let's have one last drink.

It's the last few minutes together!




Let's pretend we're sitting in a little artistic cafe in Paris.








What a nice jacket.











I was admitted to the New Orleans Sports Club last Christmas.
Really? It's the best gift I've ever received.












- Less?




My weight isn't the best topic to talk about.















You're a born gentleman, one of the last in the world.





Not a good idea.

Are you and Stanley old friends?


















- Yes, darling?





























































































Honey.


The city is small, and gradually they've learned the truth.










































How nice after a hot bath.



Hot bath and cold drinks have always given me a new vision of the world.





















The old girl had a parrot who was awfully swearing and knew more vulgar expressions than even Mr. Kowalski.











That's all you hear from you and your sister from morning to evening.






















And please tell me it's very important.
Honey, it's gonna be okay after she leaves and you give birth to a baby.








What cute little candles!




























Here's a little birthday present for you.























And weren't we happy before she showed up?
Wasn't everything okay before she got here, all arrogant, thinking I was some kind of monkey?
















But hello anyway, sweetheart.


But I forgive you, I forgive you, because it's still good to see you.












- Isn't she better? - Why?













But I'll be ready now.
































I want to get a better look at you.

























- Yeah, it's such a big spider.



















Kifaber, Harris and Shaw tied an old can to the tail of a kitten.






















































Oh, no, honey, don't go.


It's the best way to stop dizziness in the world.
















Anything good?








My old lover.









































And it's no big deal here.





























Look at your old whore's outfit for 50 cents renting an old man!

























I need to get out now.

























And he survived. Even when you're in a rat hole like this, you have to believe you're lucky.












But in her brain, it turned into some Caribbean cruise with an old fan.




Yeah, Stella, I want to skate them on the jacket. It's gonna be beautiful.







- Yes, darling.

Tell her she's beautiful.



What beautiful hair!




Not yet, darling.
















Very handsome!





He's from the French market, darling. That doesn't mean he's clean.


I'm ready.









Yeah, honey, I think it's him.

I'm not quite ready yet.











Come on, you ready?























































It's very important.





Is she old enough to make it to dinner?













Maybe it's a very bad joke.








































I'm gonna stay calm.


Good night, Dr. Henderson.
Good night, Mrs. Frobisher.

It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it'

Don't I always wish you a good night?









Good night, Wrathy.






What do you want?








That's not so good anymore.















Okay, we'll wait for him together.



Beautiful comfortable shoes.

What a big leg, old lady.
What do you want from my husband?
Look at the front page.


















He arrived this morning from London.




























































I killed him this morning.






















What happened this morning?

He said he was in trouble and needed money.














It wasn't important at the time.
But it's important now.







We need a load.




She won't be here till morning.





I'm working on a new book.













Early in the morning.




















I'll be a good husband, Jeanette.
Better than he was.













He's better now.
And the mix will be safer for me.







In large quantities, yes.





I'm sure you won't let me, my dear.







I think as the nearest neighbor, I'll be allowed to welcome him first.













George, honey, this is Dr. Henderson.












Jeanette, darling?




Tell me, my dear, can I borrow another dictionary from you?












It's been a pleasure seeing you.
My dear, the dictionary.




You must be very happy to be home, Mr Preston.


Most of the time.


It's something new.





Beautiful.
Beautiful.

It's the new Oxford dictionary.

Oh, old buddy.











I was ready to hit you.






It's amazing what new clothes can do.
How bad it is, it's not gonna work either.
Your husband had good taste.






























My lovely secretary thought I might be gonna dictate a juicy murder story?


It's a good thing I haven't gone to bed yet.



























You gonna take care of him in the morning?
All right, Janet.
Good night.









Okay.
I need a drink.








Good morning.
Good morning.



























What do you want, Mr. Bigley? Donation?






















Good for you, sir.
















That would be very nice of you.





All right, Mr Preston.












And this water is nice and deep.










I'd be surprised if my sweet little secretary could do something to us.












Lunch's been ready for an hour and a half.




He's been there all morning.







What have you been doing all morning?






































It's a lovely morning.
The ferocious one was never so good.











What a lovely morning.








You need me, just like I need you.










Good morning.




















He needs to get from Tarnmur.







But I'm sure my wife would love a cup of coffee.

Good morning.









I'm a little excited to see a note about my wife's new book.



A new book.




What a beautiful piece of material.








I also need the London papers.


























Good morning.











































I need you, Larry.



You don't want me or anyone else.









I need you, and I hate you.

Good morning.



This morning, I found the answer in the papers.



















He's not well.






I hope I didn't embarrass you with my little joke.
















You're better in the morning, my dear.











Okay.



Unfortunately, it's not the best brand.





In the last couple of days, I've been able to watch you.





Okay.














Good morning, I've come to return the dictionary.
My dear, you look radiant!

The morning on the peatnuts is beautiful.





Yeah, you could say she's moving out of her way!

I wanted a good morning, darling.








Not the best copy.













Very good. Here.






















Okay, George.









Where's my dear wife?









I'm gonna be happy. I can't.



















She's a nice kid.





























Jeanette needs your company.
























You have something bigger, Chris.







You've learned beautiful words, Chris.






I need him.
I wanted him from the first minute I saw him.
You asked a nice question.










You don't know how to lose, my dear.















I'd be happy if you'd come with me.


If you still need me.










I thought years had changed George, but he got worse.




























Good evening, my dear.





That's very nice of you.


Latest preparations.

















Could you do that right in the morning? For me.
Okay.


















Good night, my dear.
















Tell her Larry needs her.



























And since I'm in love with you, I've smoked a little bit over the last few days.
Didn't I tell you about your beautiful blue eyes?









I don't need your help, not anyone else.


Good morning, Mrs. Buntin.

























Only in the old picture, but it doesn't look like it at all.

It's an old wedding photo. It's on the bureau.








My dear sir.
It's good to see you on your feet so soon.
















A little blue bottle?








My dear Mr Preston, the Jeep was insured.



What do you want?










He entered a lonely house in the Yorkshire marshes and has successfully pretended to be the husband of a talented and beautiful woman.









I'll tell you when I get to the last chapter.
Since this is the morning of the question.










Good morning, my dear.
Good morning, George.



Let's not talk about it, my dear.









Early in the morning.







I saw her that first night.








Of course, my dear, it's such a shock for you and you don't have to turn yourself around.















If there's anything I can do, my dear, you'll definitely call me, won't you?









































































All right, do as you like.


I'm glad you can laugh.












That's a good decision.














I think I'd better...





































Of course, I want to go as much as you do.

You're saying you need a little more sexy with the boys?



















When they enter the living room, we'll be very nice, you know? Let's flatter them a little, give them a hug, give them a kiss.






That's good...




Because two beautiful ladies came into the room.


You're my beautiful macho!
What a nice, handsome man you are!



Honey, why don't you sit here.
Oh, yeah, honey, you sit down, too.

It'll make you feel better. Okay.
Sit down, darling.









Thank you very much.


Thank you very much.


Ricky, honey, you know better than right now, you only look when you're wearing a tuxedo.
Yeah, I think the tuxedo is the most beautiful piece of male wardrobe.

Speaking of boxing. There's nothing more exciting than sitting in the front row.
Yes, sir, in the front row of Copacabana.







Is that the last word?
Last one.





Well, honey, you said you wanted to go...































And I already know who we're going with, they're both tall brunettes, young and beautiful.
















I was just trying to pretend better while my husbands were here.

















I'm gonna get a notebook and call some old friends.







We're gonna go to Charlie's restaurant, order a steak like this, all over the big cheese onion rings.









No, that's not a good idea.


















It's a good thing you remembered her.






























Yeah, I'm glad to hear from you again, sweetheart.




















































Look, ladies, it was really nice of you to come tonight, but due to unforeseen circumstances, we've changed our plans.









It's time for him to go to bed. He has an early rehearsal tomorrow morning.



He's right, right. I have to go to rehearsal in the morning.

























































It doesn't matter, listen.
It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Forget it.


















































Very good.





































It's bad for your studies.
















I'll be right there.


- Okay, where were we?










Hi, honey, how are you?







































- Hello, darling.


- Okay.


Isn't he very handsome?






























In a situation like this, I always get confused. I'm a bad organizer... always making a mess.



















Ready to start a derby? I'm picking up a moment.


Yvonne, darling, it would be better if you changed the subject.

No, I'm afraid it's a little worse.







- I'm sick.



















Of course it's good for a kid his age to go to school.


Honey, the education system is doing great today.






Last year, he flew his own plane from Boston. And he was so funny and happy. - How?

























It's gonna be okay.













See how calm he is.
But morphine, such a little kid, isn't it dangerous? No, especially since it's not morphine.


The fractures of this type are very painful, but only the first days. Yes. I get it.






It could have been worse.











Michelle said something that, as a friend, he felt it was his duty to convey to me, so that I could think of the best way...


- Don't worry, calm down.










It's all right now, but don't move. Please stay still.













My little man!





























Yes, very good, Chesira.


How are you feeling? It's better now.


That's how you make things worse for yourself.


Don't insist. I'm fine. I'm coming to my senses.












No, call the office tomorrow morning.






- Sleep is the best cure. Yes, yes, my love.









I'm sorry, but it's very important to me.






Have a nice day.
- Irene, darling. - I want to know?














- I understand you, darling.























Is it not clear that the child's first impression of peace... is the fear of bombing during the war?





They barely have enough money to buy medicine... very expensive. This new American-made drug.


How do you do that? Do you want to go right now?



- Very good.























I need you as much as you need me.










- It's you, sir, good morning.



If there's anything else you need, we'll try to help you.




Okay, I'll see you later. Good luck.

Thank you very much. - Thank you very much.














Let's just say, "Punica in the London financial world... because of the new U.S. manoeuvre in Persians." - Two columns?

Heading on the front page.







- It doesn't matter.
Irene, honey, listen to me.




- They need help.
- Yeah, they need help.


Take it, it's a good book.









- You're happy, aren't you? - Yeah, good news.
Look, Irene, I see you've been having some books lately... and newspapers.
Did they turn your head? But I'm not doing anything wrong, Mom.











He's good.






- Okay, thanks. - Bruno's here, you see.





Can I get you a glass of wine? - Look how good we are.



If you'll excuse me, I'll introduce you to our good friends.

Our consultant. Another dear friend of mine.




Okay, now shut up, let Hijello sing.


All right, I'm on my way.



- It's a miracle. Very good.



He's a very good rootist.
Gives you a lot of hope.
Yeah, gives us a lot of hope, but so far, he's just deforming our eardrums.








So simple people and so cute.








If they'd made the industrial zone here, and for that, everything's ready... there's all the services, water, light.











Okay, how beautiful you are.









Okay. And now you.









And you, you're big enough to be careful. - They ran away, and I went looking for them.



She's beautiful, isn't she? And this beautiful child wanted to get rid of his mother.




- She's beautiful, isn't she?
- Yes, very beautiful. - How many kids do you have?









You have beautiful children.










- My good girl, you're beautiful!

















He's better than a piece of bread. I'm the crazy one. You don't love me anymore?





























Okay, very good.







Honey, I want to be strong and calm.
I've learned so much in these days.
There's no way I'm gonna try not to forget all this... darling. You have to do it.
Anything you think is right.


She's strong, she's hardworking... she's a wonderful man.

She needs to get a job, any job.

Okay, I'll find it. It's more about what you want.





We met so often, Irene, darling, you wanted... just to help her?


She's got a defense, she's trying to be the right one, she's making up 1001 things.









- Okay, okay. We were a little late for lunch, there were things we should've done.
































If you don't hurry, we'll miss the first act.






























The herds are going on a journey to new pastures.

Water, strong water, a source of enormous energy. It flows today through the channels that people have dug, directly into a new, huge reservoir.

So, a few human lives give a lot of others a chance to get a new, better life.






Don't you think your reaction is based on... first impressions?




How can you think they'll be happier?











No, Andre, too much faith blinds.


























- Goodbye, beautiful. Have a safe journey.


God, I feel so bad. What are you doing in my block?









This lady needs a doctor. Yeah, it's for one woman, she's very sick.





- Okay. I want to stay at my house.
- She's very bad.
We need to put her in a hospital right now.





















- Okay, tell them to bring... señorita two boiled eggs, coffee and milk and a bun.










- Leave me alone, I'm sick.










What's new?







- It's better if you calm down.



No, everything else doesn't matter.

Today's a big robbery at Trastevere.

The bandits managed to escape... in a gray car. A big robbery in Trastevere.














































But I'd like to hear more. That would be too long a story.

Me. Very good.





- Dear Doctor.









This morning I was told that, as a result of the tragic death of her son, as she herself said, "has become mentally unstable".




Definitely that since she left, he didn't know anything about her until that morning, as he read about everything in the paper.

Commissioner, I had an idea I offered him this morning.




Why do you need this exam?














Tell me what else you need and I'll bring everything you want.

I'm perfectly calm.















Try the largest frequency.




I'll ask you to... look at these images, tell me the first thing that comes into your head.
I need you to actively help me and try to... give me as many answers as possible.




















This new mistress Hirard?





I don't want anything from you.




- Very good, thank you.












What you're experiencing is the true expression of one of the... Christian feelings. However, love also has its own rules, its own laws, which must be respected. And it is within this order that we must try to live.























































- Very good. - Sit down. I'm here to talk about this lady's case, Mr. Hirard, who was placed in a psychiatric hospital, remember?




Okay, I'll get to know these documents. Anyway, I'd like to meet... and talk to the lady herself, to the relatives, to all the relatives, to the attending doctor, and to all the people who were with her after her son died.

I think all these meetings should be held directly at the clinic. It would be, you could say, more delicate... and we would have prevented another scandal. I think it'd be better that way.
I read your report, and I talked to her family... and to all the people who could tell us... about the life of Mrs. Hirard over the past few months.








When it comes to religious or social ideas, it's very difficult... Talking about the truth in the final instance. Especially these days when it's so fragile.


























Okay, why don't you tell me what your feelings are, what your motives are?

It's very important that you tell me everything.








And I want to share the joy with the happy, and feel the pain of all those who suffer, worry... with those who are desperate.














Dear Judge.


























Look at this beautiful fabric.










If you think we're happy, you're wrong.












Mom, I'm so happy.


I know. You must be happy, you have our blessing.





Are you happy?


But the wedding in Mexico City would have been even better.



- To have such a big house.





Get ready for the worst.

Mother's getting worse.



















Are you feeling better, Mom?









Little scruffle.


A big coconut grove can go back to Philip.


I'm gonna take a piss at a small house in Portales.


Mom, are you okay?

















Don't say that, you were so much worse.










Bring in the commissar to formalize my last will.






























Why did you come here? You're a bad son--



























I'm getting worse.













Okay, Mom.

















Yes, Mr. Deputy. Thank you very much.










- Yes, sir. He's one of the best.












Goodbye, darling.





















- Okay, Mr. Eladio.
- Come on, you first.

















Thank you very much. I heard you'd be appointed judge.


Oh, that's good.





















I'm getting worse.







And the angels are so calm.







We all need to get there fast.




















Okay, come on.















I need two women.











I need to get my throat wet.
I need my bottle.









Very bad. Find a way out.

































































We have to go, or we'll get there late.





No doubt, but there's a new life.



























We need to see if the stones are getting in the way.

You dirty Oliverio, you need to take a bath.











Sure. Albina is very beautiful, but she's not with you.






























Okay, on the left, that's over there.























































Are they expensive?

- There's no better business than a chicken farm.


























Good morning.
Good morning. Look at him spinning like a caterpillar.













Happy birthday to you, we've come to sing to beautiful girls like you.
Wake up, darling, wake up...













I wish you all the best, Mother.
Thank you, darling.



..get up, dear..................................... It's Sylvester


What a lovely morning.










Nice to meet you, and thank you for inviting me.

Thank you very much.




- My darling.



It's good to be back.
My best wishes.







Goodbye, Mrs. Sixsta.







Thank you very much, but this chair is too short for me.


I'm a prick enough to stab anyone who's bothering you, darling.












In the history of all peoples, mother always came first.
No one knows who came first.






Look to see a worthy example of a mirror that every good son has to look at.



If I hadn't been attached and respected to where I am, my dear cripple...

San Marcos is famous for beautiful women.
San Marcos is famous for beautiful women.






..and very happy.















You've seen the more handsome eyes of the beloved woman San Marcos, the beautiful woman of San Marcos.
Mr. Eladio... watch your little chick.



Not only are San Marcos women beautiful and beautiful.
Not only are San Marcos women beautiful and beautiful.


Don't choke on me, it's a bad manner.






Today is the last day of Carmelita's vacation.





































































When the baker is bad, he blames all the flour.

You have a right to be angry, darling.











What's wrong with me offering myself to you?







Thank you very much.

Oliverio is one of the best drivers in the county.












Life is like the drawers of a water wheel... my dear Mr. Nemesio.




































.. called a large coconut grove.. boats and fishing gear



















You first.













A little better.






















Why the left hand if she just said she was better?








- Yeah, do you need anything?














You're beautiful and so profitable.


















I'm very happy to have an opponent like you.







































The day before yesterday, a little angel was born today another one flew away.



Yes, darling.




It's too bad the earth has to swallow it.







Thank you very much, Sylvester.












They left this morning.






We haven't been able to tell you before.


Her last hours weren't easy because you weren't there.


What proof do you need?


When we're more calm











He's gonna go to school and he's gonna have everything he needs.





What's so good about being a regular spy, monsieur?






Nothing will bring me more happiness.








People are suspicious and ready for a revolution, because your son is hidden somewhere.

Otherwise there won't be a royal house, Louis is young to reign.














How nice this beautiful Amazon is for you!


A thousand apologies, but a simple touch of your hand is more valuable than all the treasures of the world.



- I lost my last hope.
















I remember how happy I was in those days of battle.

D'Artagnan... the best swordsman in all of Europe!



And she said, "Monsieur, if one day a racer brings you a ring, this ring,







I believe Her Majesty is in great danger. Otherwise, I wouldn't have sent it.




































Well, honey, wait for me to come back.























- You're very kind, monsieur. I've seen the best swordsman in France, and you're already with them. Not at all.





Not now, darling.













How nice to see old friends, Cabo.





- Oh, old Musketeers!
Are they that old?







- Wow! What a beautiful boy!






































You're not that big.






The biggest bed I've ever seen.










- Beautiful Musketeer, let us in, please!


You're gonna love it! Very well, gentlemen, shall we go to the horses?
The question is, D'Artagnan, what do we do with the girl? Obviously, dear friend, to look after her.









- Still better than usual.

Good morning, monsieur.
- Good morning, madam. - Good morning, Mademoiselle.
Good morning, Claire!

















- Her husband, Count de La Frere. - Pleasure to serve. - And you?


The horses are almost ready, Count de la Frere. Count de La Frere?


- This is my first husband. - And you travel together?






















Okay, madam.











It's so good to see you again! You're adorable!















You're our hope. Our last hope.





- Your Highness has good taste.










All the worse for them.















Better get home. It's an order.
Your Majesty, you need peace.








- Good morning, Claire!









- It doesn't matter-- - I didn't say that!

Every word you say is so important to me!


















- That's better.













You'll be executed one at a time every morning.
One tomorrow. The next morning, the second. Then the last one.

- You first. - We left the bones.























We need a young man's clothes for Her Highness.






But you were willing to make such a sacrifice for me.
























We need to get you to Spain, and we need to pick him up.










































- I suggested it first.

There's no time to argue. Aramis suggested it first.








You're forgetting, Father, I don't need anyone's consent.





- Well, darling, we have to go.


It's so good to see you!





And Countess Claudine! D'Artagnan! Honey!





No, darling. Even the Queen trusted her.

Such a beautiful mouth wasn't given to you to chat.
































Okay.






































Jacques drinks like every glass of wine is the last.
Maybe the last one.












Too pretty to work in a tavern.














Okay, but remember to be there by midnight. By midnight?






































I'm already losing count. - Okay.



There's only one thing left to do. At first signs of an attack, the king will be in danger.









- Goodbye, darling!










- Much better than in the morning.

I hope we go to Paris tomorrow morning.


















That's a great trick, darling, bringing me these people.


Something very important today.

















Your Grace, the horses behind the castle are ready.













































Well, it's much better than if raw fish fed on us.













Today we have a big moon! To celebrate your arrival.










Wouldn't you rather be on chicken?










My people are happy to entertain you.

Yeah, it'd be even more fun if I was the one talking to a beautiful girl.
















- I have a very nice friend for you.

The one, the little one.











Saloma thinks you're handsome.
Saloma needs glasses.















As you know, this is my first visit to the beautiful island of Kola-Cola.












- Did you take a bath this morning?
























- Saloma thinks you're handsome.


Yeah, but she's a lot bigger and prettier here.
I'm sure it's a beautiful place to live.


Yeah, we have everything we need here to be happy. Quiet calm atmosphere.


















Oh, it's better than nothing.











I'm sure he'll be happy to meet you both.

























It's late, I have to go.









Yes, thank you very much, but now it's time for you to leave.





Come on, Saloma. - Good night, my little...































I need a cup of coffee right now! Come on, Duke.






- Good morning, Chula. - Good morning.








Since when do you have to announce her coming?




Doctor's probably busy, except that if it's not, it's no better.









Good morning. I'm Dr. Zabor.






























You're wandering around scaring little kids, aren't you?






























Why are you so cold to me, my dear? You know I love you.






That's very kind of you to help us with our clothes, Doc.

I'm happy I could help. There's a lot of medicine here, Doc.



- Of course, the zoo is smaller.























Where nature takes years, I'm only in a few hours.























That's a good girl!
Now get out! Come on! That's a good girl!



Good girl.









Okay, Doctor. Come on, Ramona.
Here's a good girl, go to your cage.
To a good little girl. - Okay, Pepe...


















- Oh, thank you very much. - That'd be great.




- Gentlemen, nice to meet you.





And the sooner the better.



- Oh, my God, honey, what is it?




What do you want, what?

That's so sweet.














I think that's all I have left until I think of something better.









"Oh, thank you very much.











You need to go back to your cage, come on, animal, let's go.
Come on, little one.































I hope so, okay?

Progress is quite satisfactory. Okay.












Okay, that's a very good idea.






Baby, when we get back to the States, we're gonna have a big wedding, all right?
But darling, my father will probably want us to get married here, under all the laws of the tribe.
























Okay...

- She's gonna be big, like a gorilla? - Nope. Nope.


Mr.... she's turned into a little monkey.







- Good morning, Chula.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.

- You're just in time, darling.
I got up late myself this morning.





I thought... nothing, my dear.
Good morning, Ramona.






You're happy here, you have Nona.
















We need to get back to the States.

- Okay.


I need you in the lab.
Okay. You'll never find Pepe's house on your own.

Okay.

Good morning, everyone!


Hello, hello, good morning! - Good morning.

- Good morning. How are you doing, my little anthropoid?









Okay, Doctor.

Okay, Chula. Very good.

















Oh, you're back, my little one!







That's not good.



Okay.




- Okay. - Come on.




Now let's see if my dear Nona prefers you to me!












Next step in my experiments, darling.









Do Pepe have any good news for our friend Duke?



- Sammy, we'd better get back to the village.


I'll be happy to go with you, darling. Come on.




Come on, darling.




Oh, good, yeah. Three words, three words.





























Little Ramona, the big Ramona, the monkey, the gorilla, the jungle, the girls, the crazy doctors...

I'm a young man, I still have a lot to learn.






Key, key! We need to find the key!


Come on, we gotta get out of here.








I'm sure he's safe, darling.






















No, my dear.




We'll find you a nice apartment in the zoo... you can come visit anytime you want.

We need to think!


Now sit down and think about it!



































Come on, we gotta get out of here! Come on, let's go!













Oh, Duke, my dear, what did they do to you?



A very touching scene, my dear.
- Step aside, my dear.































- Good luck, honey. Chief Rakos?


- Bye, honey.







You'd better make someone laugh this time, or you're going to get unemployment benefits.





Where's my little man?































Okay.













Good morning, darling.
Good morning, Walter.



To see if he left anything important.






I think I'll buy some more.



















Okay.


Oh, come on, darling.






Good morning, Ruthie.

Good morning, Ruth.
















Okay.






Ruth, darling.






We had such a beautiful evening planned.





I thought he was the greatest love of your life.















I want you to take this box of old clothes to church.








I hope you have a lovely Christmas.



Beautiful, isn't it?




There's something I need to take care of with you.




It's gonna be okay, thanks.



























Corky, you bad dog!


Good boy.







Nice to meet you.







Goodbye, darling.























It's better to go inside and start.





I think we should cover the floors first with lacquer.



That's good.

You don't have to do this.


You should've asked me.



Okay.
Need some help, Mrs. Gordon?









Okay, I got a cedar closet upstairs.




The first door on the right is right down the stairs.









Well, okay.







I think work needs to be sorted out now.










I don't need to make inquiries.

















I'm... I'm gonna clean up your house, do my job, and I'm gonna forget until you have a new job, whatever it is.



You need a job, and I need an assistant.






Most people hired me once... at best for two.
Maybe they couldn't afford more.
Why did they hire me the first time?








I think I'd better get to work.














Nothing, darling!








I'm glad Aunt Helen finally found it.
A fine man to his house.





Doesn't mean you have to stay an old maid.

But I think since you were married, you shouldn't be an old maid again.





Eh, when I see beautiful, shiny floors, I want to dance.














I think men have better ways to live.

















So you need me for other purposes?







They had a job to do, but I wasn't allowed to...


You'd better go.







Trying to explain that they're doing this for my own good, that I wasn't good.



It's okay.



I really think you should go now.



Where did you come from... when you came here this morning?




Sometimes... when the morning comes,



Okay, don't worry.







They're gonna ask questions... questions I'm not ready to answer.
















I'm glad.














Hiding is bad enough, but not knowing what you're hiding from.










You know what went wrong this morning?






















Okay.







Beautiful.







Then I'll ask him if he laughed at me this morning.

















Howard, I... would have been better if Mr Armstrong hadn't found you here when he got back.











I have nowhere else to go, and I feel so good here.










You're gonna tell him how much I need this room, right?







































I just need to talk to Mrs. Gordon, maybe she knows a different place and I...
















































Too bad... it turned out that way.




















I don't want your money!




You don't need this.





























I'll let the kids in because they can go for help, but you better be quiet.


























What a beautiful tree!
Our tree isn't even ready.

Oh, look how beautiful the Christmas tree is, it's even adorned with snow.













You'd better go, I've got work to do.












Don't you want to help buy a new piano at the gym?





















I won't do anything else wrong.

I won't do anything wrong.








You have beautiful hands.






Helen is a beautiful name.





Your face is beautiful, too.












That's all I need.












I could never afford a rent, so I did as well as I could.

It's a beautiful room.

I like big closets.

That's great, too.



























We'd better let him in.

















Nice to meet you.

Hmm, that's great.






Oh... he ran away this morning.


My Timmy's a little dog, Mrs. Gordon.



He's already a big dog.







If Corky's bothering you, I'd be happy to look for him.











You don't have to check, I'm sure it's okay.


If there's more to it, we have to go again.
Okay.






Okay.



She's always so cute.






















































I guess I'd better get in touch with Joe in the car.




He's not very well...












It's okay, Mrs. Gordon.













Okay, I think Joe and I will take care of it.





You'd better lock yourself in.



Okay, but what about you?















But it'd be better if it was a gav-gaw-gaw-gaw...













- Oh, good show.

















- Oh, I just thought it was a good place to take a break.
- Oh, good.












Actually, he's been ready for a long time.


































- We're here, darling. It's Ridgefields.









Susie, honey!

- Very good, thank you, Will.











I'm glad you were smart enough to pick a pilot.

- Nice to meet you and welcome to Ridgefields.











- Very well, thank you, Miss Susan.






































How are you, darling?

- Meet your new brother-in-law.










- Oh, darling, thank you very much.



- Okay.












- No, thank you, darling.












- Oh, that's not so bad.


























- You're a little displeased with all this, aren't you, darling?

















- Honey, come downstairs and have another whiskey then go and tell him everything you feel.


























Nice to finally meet you, Tony.























Fletcher said Jackson was ready in six hours.
- Yeah, he's pretty good.






Much better than 14 hours, for example.




I think it won't hurt if you look at our little secret.









































- So, Susie, how do you like our new toy?




Good night, Joe.
- Good night, JR.

Are you ready to be tested?









- Nice landing.
- Good morning, Fletcher.
- Good morning.


- Are you ready?

- Good luck, darling!


- It's a very bad turn.














Goodbye, Tony. It's a good thing you're family.



- Okay.

















Want a drink, darling?






If it's gonna be beautiful!













Okay.
























Hello, darling.










- You'll spend a good quiet weekend in Shoram.






- I thought our fearless ass could be the first to break the sound barrier.



















- I have a beautiful voice.































Just one thing's not really good, so I'm gonna start with her, okay?




- Well, it's not that bad, is it?

- But would it be better to have a home of your own?




- Oh, darling, for two years you haven't understood how we feel about each other.








As far as his character is concerned, it would be better for me to live apart from him.





































There will be a new era, and people will move from 2,500 to 3,000 km/h as fast as possible for human beings.
And Tony could be the first person to touch this world.
















- When's it ready, Dad?

You'd better get to her right away.





- I'm gonna need your help.
- Go to the observatory, I'll be there in a minute. - Okay.
- How does the new telescope work?
- It's okay, but it could have been better.
I think one day I'll build myself a proper observatory in the park.




- As his representative, I don't feel very optimistic.













Because my dear Susan, Mr. Franklin, is very fond of his current work.

- Good night, love.







I went to see a doctor this morning.
















- Yes, darling. I'm afraid it's necessary.




- Honey, I hate this.
























There's a lot of fuel going on here.












- Honey, France.










- The Earth is starting to look very small and insignificant.

- You're old-fashioned, honey.
Why worry about poor old Earth?







- I'm glad he is.


- Good to see you!




- Good trip?












- I'll wait in the Jeep, okay? - Okay...


He mentioned it in his last letter, but I didn't take it seriously.


- Does he get along with the big boss?














- Don't worry, darling, we'll figure something out.







- Oh, good.
- The best kitchen in Cairo.
- Just think, you were in England this morning.


- I'm so happy to finally meet you.




- Okay, thanks.











- Thank you, John, it's a good steady coffin.
























The debris is scattered in a large area."



















He was a good guy, old Jeffrey.


















All I see is a huge wall in the sky ready to tear apart any plane.




































- Yes, darling, I hear you.















- Why when you have such a big one?



Hello, darling.
- Hey, honey.






Well, that was a good idea.




















But perhaps the best is not to say.







There's no better pilot in this country.

















- You need to rest, Will.
- Of course I need a rest!




- With the new test pilot.
This guy's a good pilot.
Tony says he's better than him.

No one is better than Tony.






















- You have a good hobby here.

- Well, good night.




You don't have to answer that.





- Well, good night, my boy.
Happy landings tomorrow.

Oh, I'm sorry, darling.








- They say the movie's good.
Honey?


Good night.
- Good night, my love.





Good night.
- Good night.

























Okay, here we go.

No vibrations. The balance is good. Increased speed.................................






Okay.





- All right, Will, old chicken.






Okay, 12,000 meters high.
It's all set.
























- You'd better sit down.





I don't know, honey.




I guess I'm too old.












It's all set.













































- I heard the new plane made it.









- I'm glad you're back.






- I think, J.R., a good plane should have something fatal in its form.



Oh, by the way, I heard you made a new Prometheus.

- It's too good a plane to lose, Will.
It's the best thing that ever appeared in England after the war.

















- Hello, darling.













Come on, darling.












- You don't have to get close to the big number of Maha!

















- Sorry I'm late, honey.









Unfortunately, darling.




How was your flight, darling?












- I'm gonna check it out to a large number of Mahs, and if it's okay tomorrow.








- Honey, I hope he's still okay.





Well, okay.

- A complaint from one of our most important clients in Mexico showed me a possible defect in the retention of the engine...



- There's not one very important detail.











It's very important to me.


- Will, you'd better go.

I don't know what the hell's in you, but he's not gonna make you happy.




- You haven't been giving me the pleasure of seeing you lately.


- Okay.












- Are you ready to let Philip follow Tony's path?




- One day Ridgefields will build a liner that will reach New York in three hours.


- My dear Susan, that's how you picture me.




- My dear Susan, if you could just tell me at the expense of the Ridgefields what's happening to the plane at the speed of sound, I'd say,















Examples can be good and bad, you know, Father.



- Okay.


There's something I need to tell you.








There aren't many good schools.




Ready for the first full thrust attempt.





I'm ready.



















All you have to do is use the handle.




Okay, second try.





















- Can my example be bad?









Okay.
Third and last try.















- Okay.










Okay, we're coming.


































- It's a good thing I caught you here.
- Hey, honey.







Pay attention, darling.
It's very important.





Well, bye, darling.





































Good morning.

It's gonna get worse.










- Good morning.
- Good morning.
Breathing is very important for physical stresses.



- I need pencils!

- Good morning, Your Excellency.



Good morning, General.
Good morning, Mr. Mayor.
- Good morning, Mr. Mayor.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Mr. Mayor.












Okay!
- Very good.







Okay, very good.










No doubt we found a new piece of eye marble!
Okay!







Good work, Professor!














You see, dear Professor, your dream is, rather, our dream is being realized.
Are you happy?



This will refresh your mind, dear Professor.
Professor, give me a little speech that my colleagues have learned the importance of your discovery.

We're standing right in the middle of town with his big buildings and temples.

















It's such an important piece!


Everything must be ready for His Excellency's arrival.










It's a big marble outfit that's gonna close the ugly view of the suburbs, and a big marble surface will provide a decent frame.


Everything must be ready for His Excellency's arrival.
- Is the orchestra ready?
























We need to cut all costs that aren't much needed and increase tax revenues.
We've already sent a new tax file, according to our plan.


Colonel, we have introduced many new prohibitions.






Before continuing this interesting debate on art, I must inform you that there are no new developments in health care.
I'm glad to hear that.

They were publicly donated to the poor during His Excellency's last visit.














All right, sir.





- Okay, what's the problem?

"Dear Professor...
"Dear Professor... your dream, I suppose, our dream or your dream..."

"Okay, air the north wind!


















- The hospital needs blankets.













Have a good day, all of you.



















- Don't flatter me.




Make good copies of these acts... and add information from the cadastre.




My dear friends!




- We sent our ship for a big swim!
- And what a big ship!

Honey!





My dear, you know I always sleep naked!










That's cute!





- Okay.

Yeah, honey, I know.




Please, darling!


My dear, calm down!











Don't mind that remark. There's a little hole in there.
It's small, but it's still a hole.











- No, three, my dear!











Pay attention to your big council!






- I'd love to poke your eyes out.



I'm your old client.


- Just tell me what you need.
- Okay, look...
This coat is still in good condition.





- I know it's in good condition.












Good morning, sir.


It's impossible, you need a new coat.


A new one?






























New coat.


I'm gonna get a new coat.

- Drink some cognac, you'll feel better.


















Okay... shoulder size: 42.
You don't need fur trim.




If the groom is an old cat...



The cut... we don't need it!


















In a new coat, you'll be a different person.
Your career will go up, and women... love a nice coat.










- Okay. - How dare he?
First he needed a coat and then he didn't.





























- Then it's okay.


Okay, don't worry.

It's okay.

You have to come straight to me, first call.

You're the worst employee of our company.







































I want to give you one last chance.




























I found a good secret place...





















We need good material for the winter coat.
We have good English wool, but it's very expensive.














I need to see...






- I'd say for a big shot, my friend.




- Good morning, gentlemen. - Good morning.

Beautiful view.


No, I need to go to City Hall for congratulations.
- Good morning. - Good morning.







- Good morning.

















































- Good morning.







Before wishing the Mayor a happy new year, I invite you to my home tonight.



In this way, we will christen Mrs. De Carmine's new coat.
We're not just colleagues, we're like one big family.














Is it gonna be a good photograve in a new coat?












I've been watching this all morning!
Try to stick to this position, I have to hurry.




- Not really.



















Okay?






















These decisions, even if they determine the purchase of the property itself, cannot be made while standing still, must continue to go.













- That's so good! - It's made for me.
- I don't have to go this way.




















This night should be a happy night for us.


















Happy New Year!
Our big family has a motto:







It's a beautiful coat.
































He's drunk, but it's a new year.
- Good night and happy new year.
- Good night, thank you.
- Good night, señorita!
- Happy New Year.

I'll call you tomorrow morning.
Happy New Year!


- No, I'll talk to you tomorrow morning.


Happy New Year.
Happy New Year!












It was new, with fur trim.









- It's not that easy, my dear!
















































I need a minute to talk to you.




Okay, my... my new coat was stolen... with fur trimmings.



First of all, you came without asking.

Third, you insulted an important government agency.












All right, come in!































Good morning, Katerina.




You and your little dog in her coat, and I'm also in my coat.














- Are you okay?













Your Excellency, look at this beautiful building.



You have a good memory!



- Okay...






I think we're lucky that on this solemn day we made a decision that will give a new impetus.














This project will require the large financial investments that have been made, as approved by us, in the budget.



- I need my coat.






- I need my coat.






























































- Okay.








My darling!








Sorry, my dear.









I'm calmer than I've ever been.
What do you want at a time like this?































I'll call the Carabineros, the police, the army and the tanks. Okay?



I thought it was all very important, instead of...














I have to go home now, goodbye.
Good night, Mr. Mayor.















I wish you a good vacation, but don't forget your studies.





It's probably nice to have a hometown.


It's a good thing you were born here.





You better get ready for tomorrow.



On the very first one.
That's good. You'll come to Hiroshima before sundown.
























Okay, I'll try.






It's better to forget what you remember.

The victim of the first atomic bombing.

Her beautiful rivers are still flowing. Just like they leaked on that memorial day.








































But it's better than nothing.




















You're not that bad.










She's very nice.

It's so beautiful of her.

































He's the smallest man to carry stones.




But the kids are good.










I'm glad to hear that.







But it's better for Taro.





It's all fine, but it's not gonna work.





It's so good to see you again.


I don't feel so good about Eva-san.










It's a pleasure.


Have you eaten, darling?


Good husband.

He's not that good.




How's the bathroom?











Kuraisi says we can take their last child.







I'd better go see the baby.
Yeah, the sooner, the better.






































Better get a doctor.
























I'm looking for an old schoolgirl named Toshiko.




















It's very good that you're asking him to do this.








Okay.
Dear Mother, go to bed.





Is it beautiful on the island? Yes.





I was glad I saw them again. But I'm so sick right now.






























- Okay. I'm just gonna dive again.













It's a good thing you're here. It's been a long time.









It's really good to see you.











Brother will be pleased.





He's so pleased to meet you.
I'm glad he's healthy.





You should be ready by now.















I'm glad she's marrying Tanaka.




I'm glad for her.




I was happy just because I was alive.
Not everything in the world is bad.







Father and mother would be happy.
Let's have one last toast.

Are you ready?







Be happy!












For Taro, it's the best thing to do.


















Okay.






























I'm glad you changed your mind.










She lives in a beautiful house on the island.




You'll be fine, Taro.





Taro, you're gonna go first, and Grandpa's gonna come back later.

Good kids listen to adults.




















Why did you buy me such good shoes?


I wanted new shoes so badly.














- Never. - You're a good boy, Taro.






























At least he'll be happy.

It's better this way.









































You're gonna show him the sea, okay?









What role did you play in the last local elections, Mr. Renzi?





















Well, what are you displeased with, madam?



























Best opportunity ever, men.


















Okay.
















New for the second edition.
Okay.



Okay.















It's a good story, George.



















I'm gonna make a good article.
Okay.




But we're the best team in town, maybe in the country. Why?






















Oh, good.
It's just beautiful.





We thought it was best to make a general announcement separately.


John Harrison's last will,


































For 1,500 people working for you, it's a big difference.









There won't be any more of this paper.





Your husband created a new kind of journalism, and you helped him do it.
It's not the first paper you've published.

On the front page.











It would be nice to move it until the sale is over.



























Go now and look for a new job... or wait for a court decision.



























But a bad father.




















Yeah, okay.




































I gave it the 14 best years of my life.



























They want comic books, contests, riddles.


And if they open the front page, they'll run into you by accident.







It was a good wake.
Good night.










Journalist is the best profession in the world.




























It's not the oldest profession, is it?
But the best.







Yes, darling.
Yes, darling.
That's why I'm going to dedicate the best years of my life to you.




Yes, darling.




















- Yes, darling.
- Yes, darling.

We didn't even have the first one.
No, I'm gonna get better, honey.









For being a good boy, I was paid generously.




Not a bad copy.




















Is that what they need?



Right here, honey.
"Here you go, sweetheart."

Yes, darling.
You know, you and I are gonna have some big adventures, like we used to.






Yes, darling.







Yes, darling.


Good night, dear.











Okay.
Good morning, darling.













Was I good last night?
Yes, darling.





Good morning.












































































For the great, big, fat glory of the paper?



"Day" paper, good morning.
























I need everything.
























I want it in the first issue.
























First page of the editor.





















Which could be more important, Doctor.















Okay?






































It's the best front line in town.






Beautiful.








Beautiful dress for dinner.






Your table is ready, sir.







They said it was important.
It's urgent, darling.







A place where a little girl put her coat in the closet.


































I'm ready to discuss things rationally.

I don't need your consent.


















You're the best journalist in the world.










Love alone is not enough for a happy marriage.












Okay.
Okay.












































It won't make you happy, but it will destroy me and cause trouble to my family.

You're a big advertiser, Mr. Warton.





























It's better for both of us.

Later, darling.








What do you want?








































Nice to meet you, mister. - Yes.




























Okay.






I'm just trying to do what's best for Nora.

You're not the biggest part of the prize.












Okay.










Jim Cleary's on first.
































































Okay.
















Rienzi won't get "Day" with your address until the next morning.


















It would be good, Mr. Crane,












I don't understand why you object to my daughters getting more money.





Who's feeling good about it?
You'll be happy to know that stupidity isn't a sign of investigation.












Okay?

Counsel will be notified of a new trial.

























Okay, Nasty.
Okay, what?















You're a good journalist, they say.




Your imagination is worth more.












Well, well, maybe you have the wrong impression of me.


That's not good, what you're typing.
I have a good family.














That's Renzie. It's good to see you.

Who do you think you are, little tin god?



















Wouldn't it be better if Herman Schmidt disappeared?













Okay.



Okay, you have your word.


















Why would he do that?





Okay.

















We need the governor's support.
Ask him if he can appoint a grand jury... to investigate the latest elections.



We support people from the office-- sometimes good, sometimes bad.

If the governor doesn't act, we need to contact the president of the Senate Committee.

































Intel from the department, the employee said you called at 1:30 a.m.

















All you had to do was point your finger at your sister.



































































We'll be ready for this.





You're beautiful today, baby.








We need--


















We also need the talent to find the news, teach it, and the costs of research.
Without a good report, there's no newspaper.









































All we needed was some evidence and we had it.



No, we had something bigger, big enough to save our heads.












He was sure it mattered what you came out of her.


Very good.
The best.

















You wouldn't have a wife if the paper had beautiful legs.






The bride wants to think that she's always needed,
Even in the morning.










Then I took two daughters and left this big, beautiful mausoleum.

We needed each other.


He needed a son to help with the paper.











I'm gonna look at a newspaper with good legs.




You're too old.
















As long as the grand jury charges you?










It's old news tomorrow.















Yeah, that's what they need.
You'd better find Hutcheson.












The court is ready to render its judgement.









It's true." It takes a big building a day.



But this paper, it's more than that.






















- Honest, fearless press... the first to protect society from banditry,


















Many of the best newspapers in this country have links to the same chain.
































White's the new boss.























And tell Allen we're printing the last issue as usual.








I wanted to be a good citizen.



My Bessie is dead, you don't say bad things about her.
You don't print bad pictures with her.


Okay.


















He's preparing the latest edition, and it's got to be a real newspaper.







Looks like our last one.













Who's gonna believe a little tramp writes about herself?















And you're not big enough for that.














We have a big day today.















My beautiful.


















I'll do the best I can.







I hate doing this while the new sheriff's not here.

And of course, we're your best friends.
For the work you've done here, I think it's necessary to say, and may the judge forgive me, this city will be safe until tomorrow.












- You need to be a lawyer.











You need to get out of this town.


- Doesn't matter.

- Just leave and it's gonna be okay.










Kane and his new wife ran away in a big hurry.

- In a very big hurry.









I have to go back, Amy.











- I have to go back.





We need two more, no matter where you get them.















There's a new sheriff in town now.



















You don't have to be a hero, not to me.







I'm sorry, honey.










I only have an hour and I have a lot to do.







I need to stay.
- Good for you, Percy.


You shouldn't have come back, Will.

I need to stay.








I only avoided death because of a lady with questionable reputation and the value of a beautiful ring that belonged to my mother.
















- It's okay, thanks.



Thank you very much.












It's just a little useless village in the middle of nowhere.
Nothing important ever happens here.






















If you leave until the new sheriff gets here tomorrow, I'll stay in charge, right?
If I'm good enough to perform my duties when something happens, how come the city heads don't trust me to do it on a full-time basis?








Very simple, Will. Just tell the old men I'm the new sheriff.








- Okay.
























- Okay.






















I don't think you're gonna be so cute when he comes for you.

- That's good.



- I need to talk to Mr. Weaver.




- Okay, then.




































































What do you want?
















That's good.














































- That's what Frank needs, because...




I need help.





I need you... now.

You have six ready-made helpers.
























It's very important that I find him.






















What I need.

Okay, Jimmy.












You don't have to worry as long as I'm around.
























I'm alone in this world, I need to live.








Not so often you come here, Sheriff, and today you don't look ready for marriage.

I need help.
It's true, I didn't go to church often and maybe it's bad.




I need all the help I can get.











It doesn't matter if there's anything personal between Kane and Miller.














I've been saying for a long time that we need more help.







We pay this man, and he's the best sheriff we've ever had.

If we don't do the right thing, we're gonna be in big trouble.
There's only one thing to do here, and you know what it is.





















What's right and what's not is visible here, but if I have to tell people to go out and kill, and maybe be killed myself, I'm sorry, I don't know what to say.



He's the best sheriff we've ever had, and maybe he can't be better.














He's a big brave man, a wonderful man.
He shouldn't have come back here today.


We'll have a new sheriff tomorrow, and if we offer him our services, I think we can handle all the trouble.



It's better for you... and for us.






































A man with broken fists doesn't need arthritis, does he?

You're gonna get sick if you worry about me.

























We were ready to leave like this and he didn't want to leave.





























I don't care who's right, who's to blame.
There has to be a better way for people to live.









Only a smart man knows when to come back.

Okay.



















You were ready to do it yourself.







Why is it so important?









That's good.
I don't understand you, no matter what you say.


















- Always a pleasure, Sheriff.




- I'm glad you're here.






















I was ready.
I'm... I'm ready, but it's not like you said.















- Always a pleasure.
























- All set?




- I just want to be ready.










What do you want?










































Does he care for a beautiful girl?




































Big surprise, m'lady.


















- I've never been so happy.










I need to make up with him as soon as possible.





I can't handle the Normans alone, I need help.


They're John's best friends.













- How are you gonna spend... your last three days?













If people don't lie, you have a very beautiful princess.
Then why is it so dark in this room without a beautiful Saxon flame?


No Saxon princess needs respect from the conquerors, from those who have repealed ancient laws and betrayed her subjects to the sword.









What's new on the Holy Land?

























I fell over a bad saddle, not because I was knocked down by some goddamn knight!



























What do you want from me?




Okay, I'll be brief.













- This needs to be collected all over England.


I'd rather spend money fighting living Normans than bury the dead.
















Sir Ivanhoe, I heard young and old bears roaring.







































And thank you so much for your kindness.










I owe you a great debt.

I need 150,000 marks in silver to buy Richard from Leopold of Austria.























So you don't just need money, do you?
It's okay, but I don't have armor or a horse, and I have to fight John's people in Ashby and defeat them.





For the first time, I shake the Saxon hand as a sign of friendship.





































































I haven't seen a squad... better than yours.



































































































You've become the best knight ever.





































- He's in good hands, my lord.











How the Normans can rule England when some unknown Saxon can crush all our best knights!
















What else could he need besides the ransom money?




- Their women are no better than dogs.

But first of all, I want Ivanhoe... at all costs!










- Okay.





























































And now you're driving next to me completely calm.




































- then I'll be ready to go to Sir John's. - You'll see your father alone.








They only want me.







My father is ready to go.

















You are the last member of the Saxon royal family.
Cedric won't find you the husband of a Saxon king, so I'm the best option.



































Don't say that, Rebecca. I need you alive, not dead.

It's all set, my lord.




























That's the first one!




















































































- But I need her...
















What could be more important than what you can see and feel?


















Richard doesn't need a throne derived from such sacrifices.





- Okay, deal.

































































































Sir Bois-Hilber, since you represent the court, you are the first to choose your weapon.









Be happy!



But I guess I'm still happy. But neither he nor you... it has nothing to do with it.



































































Beautiful reception.


In fact, they only want my suffering.






But the morning comes, and the fog clears.















































We need a specialist.


















I'll make you happy.
































I know her. I know what she needs here.







By the way, some woman went over there. Right, sweetheart?






Come on, honey.



You don't need me anymore.
















































Okay.













Beautiful eyes without those glasses.























It doesn't matter that you're disabled.




Toulouse, you used to sing in the morning? Before me?
















It's beautiful.









I was happy to leave this street.












- You need a dress.




The best dress in Paris.

















You didn't go out tonight or this morning.



- Don't, I'm leaving.














Is that why you need me?
















I'm ready to kneel before Leonardo.



















Screw Kamondo, it's more important.




He's ready to write an article if my story checks out.













































You felt good.
I wish I hadn't met you.











I'm crazy about you, I don't need anyone.

































Usually three francs a morning and five a day.











I'm prettier.




























The streets of Paris taught you how to attack first.































To you, sweetheart.








- The blues need to be cooked.




It's beautiful here, isn't it?





I need some air.


Are you really sick?


















And buy yourself new legs.





In the morning, you'll beg me to come back. If you find me.





















I want to make you happy.



This is the last chance.


Madame Countess, it's good to see you.













- You can't do better than that.






















I don't know how bad I am.
You need a father now.
















It's beautiful outside.








Show me your last picture.





















































He needs silk shirts.
















You're back, so he's gonna be doing a lot better.



















The poster needs to make me look like me.












































The groom's a good guy.














































He's also avoiding old friends.























I'm the first dancer here and I demand respect.












Because the beggars don't dress in the latest fashion.







But you can put it on the front. Monsieur Lottrek will be pleased...




He's too handsome here. There he is.



































The last guests left.














Whatever's going on, it's for the best.







How nice of you to come.
You know how important it is for me to choose a dress.






We're all ready.








Miriam, honey.
It's beautiful.












Goodbye, sweetheart.





Goodbye, sweetheart.

She's beautiful, but I'm worried about what they say about her.










It doesn't matter, I'd marry Victor.










She doesn't give love, she lends it with reliable insurance and high interest.



























Good night and thank you for a lovely evening.

























But the painting was more important to me than a daily dinner.



Is loneliness familiar to a beautiful woman?








But loneliness seems to me to be the best choice.

While you're thinking, I'll remind you that in the Spanish court, the ladies kept hand-held monkeys to look even prettier.





Henri, it's good to see you.




It's a pleasure.

















She's so beautiful, we forget how old she is.

















Your first words were:







Important things I forget instantly.




She opened doors that were better off not opening.


Sweetheart Miriam, a man only does stupid things once.


























- Little Lord.













Big success, representativity.





We're gonna have to hurry, we're gonna miss the first act.











- Henri. - Sorry, honey.


- On the contrary. I also noticed at the races that your Marcel was ready to beg for mercy.


Tall, handsome, rich.



And he'll shave them on demand.

- Sorry, I'm just glad for you.

Beautiful.


















"Dear Henri, Marie Charle played an evil joke with us.



















































Pata and I are old friends. You know that, Victor?















I'll let the prefecture know he needs treatment.




If it doesn't get better, I'll call his mother.













Henri, honey, are you dying?































We sat on the balcony. The actors looked so small.

That's good.













Anything for her is fun. It's the best time of life.





















Good day!





Now's the best time.
























He's the best.







That's not necessary.



































Nice suit.










I'm glad.
It's the best time of life!














Why don't you go first?






























She'll be happy.





I'm glad.




Are you feeling better?



























Okay.

















Okay!






But we need to sort this out.











I'm glad you have an appendix.













We don't need surgery. I guess I'll come home tomorrow.

Good night!



Good night.





















Okay.



Is that good?





It's a good thing you're all okay.




Good night then, sir.


















That big, slow?








Good morning, Mr. Stupid Head.









You don't need him?








































She's nice.






































What's wrong with that?













Are you happy?



























































The cutlets were good, weren't they?


The other food is good, too.






















Good to see you.













I'm glad you're okay.











Because you hit the vending machine, I met my old corporal.


I'm really glad.






No, it's the first time today.













It would be nice to go back to Singapore.













Singapore Street in the morning.




















That's good.

Okay, I can do this.












She ran to her room and left this morning.




























Okay, I'm gonna go.








It's a charm of a happy feeling of loneliness.












































































I have to get up early.
Good night.


Good night.














Swimming isn't always bad.






What's wrong with me being simple?







Lots of good cheap food around here.






















Okay.












































Honey!


Okay, I'm not...



















Very good.






















You're much better than them.














I need the money.
I'm glad you're getting along.










You're good too.

















Your dinner is ready.







Honey.





































You're in a bad mood.
















But I love the cheap, but the good ones.






Very bad. I've been trained to do something else.







I only went first class if it was faster.



Me too. So let me do what I want. Trains are my first class.














Will you be ready?


Your passport is ready.



































I'm glad.







I'm glad you're back.








I needed it.






























I'm leaving tomorrow morning.

What time tomorrow morning?















I tried to tell you, but you were in a bad mood.










We don't need to wake up the servants.















We need a marinade.














Small plates.








That's good.













It's important.

That's enough. I'm glad you understood.






I'm glad I came this evening.
I'm glad you came home, too.

I'm glad you understood.






















It's the happiest day since we got married.


















Being a good liar, but the bitter truth is probably better than the sweet lie...




Have a nice day.










It's important.
His tie... the way he dresses it doesn't play a role. Don't think about it. Reliability is the most important thing.

But now I'm willing to do anything for him.
He's the best husband in the world.













What really matters is reliability.















You can imagine how excited I am, because these are old stories, and these are different times.

Here's the first story.




The crowd pushed like water about to tear through the dam.


Women rich, old, hunting young men, and poor girls who wanted to have fun, give up to men, spend money.


He looked like a wax figure, a fantastic caricature on a beautiful stud with a fashion picture.


























I'm happy to meet you again.
















You're gonna be okay.



































This isn't the first time he's been embarrassed.
So it's not that bad.

















And he comes back in the morning in a way that's impossible to imagine.




He's still good for his age, isn't he?


That's because you didn't see him at the best of times.


He was so handsome, sir, that you could cry when you looked at him!






- He was Martel's first master.















He had to brag.







When I noticed his first gray hair, that morning I was in charge with a light heart.










Leave me your address, or he'll get worse.



















The peasant says, "It's a good craft."


The new owners closed their inn and fully dedicated themselves to a new occupation.

They were good people, and they all fell in love.

The new profession forced him to remain inactive and immobile; he was very fat, and died of an apoplexic blow.













- That's the last one.












One evening at the end of May, Mr. Poulin, the former mayor who came first, found the door locked.





























My dear friend, I have sad news.














Even worse.

Beautiful evening.















Of all the days of the week, he had to close on Saturday.

























At short notice, new disputes arose between the former mayor and Mr. Dupuy about the salary received by the collector of gifts and his secondary earnings.



















And on Saturday morning, an ambulance took away the mistress and her maidens.




















As soon as the ladies stopped being alone, they took on the rank to inspire a good opinion of themselves.






Not bad, my dear.





















Maybe they need lifts.

They don't want them, but maybe the ladies will.



The most expensive thing for your heart.
- The heart doesn't need lifts.
- That's nice.

"The heart doesn't need lifts."

Ready?






















For the last time I warn you, monsieur, behave properly!















At the next station, Joseph Rivé was waiting for them, with a large carriage of chairs and a busy white horse.
- It's so good to see you!
- Nice to meet you, too!











Did you have to kiss them all?


- I left the best for last.






















- It's a bad seating position.
- You better watch the road.
- It's still a bad seating position.




From time to time, the wagon disappeared behind the big trees of a farm, and then reappeared from a green bath, taking away under the sun, past green and yellow crops baked with red and blue spots, the dazzling load of women.













- I'm so glad.








I bet you don't have anything like that in town.








Beautiful ladies want to meet you here.




She's so cute.










That's sweet.














It's the most beautiful dress.













Good night.

There was an inexorable silence descending on the village, as if it were a silent prayer, a calm, infuriated silence that spreads to the stars.








































A light ringing of a small bell ripped into the air like a weak voice, soon dislodged in bottomless blue.



And the boys, who looked like little marsons from the cafe, with their heads thickened, walked, spread their legs wide, so as not to get their black pants dirty.














- No, it's an honor.












I only need one thing: Closer, Lord, to Thee,





Dear brothers, dear sisters, thank you from the bottom of your heart: you have just brought me the greatest joy of my life.

Fun was somewhat cautious: the excitement experienced in the morning was as though it had not yet calmed down.





So I want to thank you for coming to our little family party.

That's sweet.




















Flora, you don't have to undress, you have to dress!


















I didn't do anything wrong.

I feel better.








Tell me, Marie, isn't it a good family party?



Touched in the same manner as the day before, and the little horse went back to running with a bunny rat.













What beautiful flowers, aren't they?

















- Bad news?


























It's so good to see you.

It's so good to see you!
I'm so glad you're back.













- Okay, six francs for you.





- I want everyone to be happy today.















There's... there's also... there's no reason, dear friend.








He had no idea this beautiful girl was a model.



























I'll be too old to feel the difference.





















However, his new style of painting has become popular.









Let's get some nice house in the village.
Not the new one.
We can repair the old one.
- It's expensive.





I witnessed their first fight.

Living together with another creature requires not a gross physical passion, which soon fades, but a kind of soul, personality, and inclination.


Ouch! See how big the fish is?
Yeah, honey.




























They fought from morning to night, fought and even fought.








He needs more money.


































I don't want your money.
















He still loves you, but it's still the same old story.



So, no scenes, okay?








































Nice to meet you.


We're happy to see you.













It's the first picture.






And these big shadows?





- What else throws such big shadows?
































It's like getting a front-row ticket to create the world.

















Or fear they'll run into something worse.












From a scientific point of view, we have made further progress in the last 60 years than in the previous 2,000 years.














- It was good years.






I'm ready.



































We need scientists at your level, Mr. Calder.



















You're not gonna hurt me. You need me.




Do you need a report?






















That Americans too want to learn the secrets of a more advanced civilization to turn them into new methods of destruction?












It's not about who gets the information first, but who gets to use it first.
My dear friend.



Do you need anything else?


- Of course, my dear friend.
What do you want?

Thank you very much, comrade!















One of my worst memories.

- That's nice.














It's too late to bother you, but your report didn't come to me this morning.


Any excuse is good to get out of Washington for a day.













But secretly, it wasn't a very good cipher.

You have no idea how happy I am.




















































Nothing. They, like us, are trying to talk to us, just to know where to start.















Waiting is the worst thing to do.









What do you need hydrogen for?












Honey. If nothing happens today, don't get too upset.

















"Man is the best test rat"?







- For the last three weeks...




The devil's first on the list.










Where there are good scientists who don't know anything about them.
























Two weeks ago, the San Diego Mountain Laboratory became the new center of the world.

First word from Mars.





























The Martians announced that they had not used coal, oil and electricity in the last three centuries. None of the energy sources we use.


















Given the time difference, the last report from Mars touched Europe when we Americans finished breakfast.


The United Kingdom's total industry estimate declined by $10 billion. Over the past two weeks.













You didn't find a better class than to mess with your own business?









And as for the little boys who can't get out, they like to dress up, too.
















Harry ordered the installation of new equipment.







- The newest device.






Remember, Mr. Secretary, that the heads of department advised that the situation should be brought under control after receiving the first message.














































- Any new messages?
























We will build our new world on the ruins of the West.







































It's a good thing you came.



- Nice to meet you, Mr. Sparks.








Have new messages been deciphered?

There was no new decryption.
And now there won't be any new messages.






I don't need to announce it, it already exists.



Who gets it and who loses the money doesn't matter to me as much as the progress of the whole civilization for 1,000 years forward with one leap.
















The same bulletin was published in Moscow at 9:30 in the morning of the 28th. So what?









Now you understand how important it is to end your association with another planet?



































Me too, Chris, but I'm glad we installed the oscillograph.













































People have found a faith that needs to be followed. No, not a new faith, but an old one that many of us have lost. Faith, common to people of all faiths.







- Did you hear the last message?
















The signal needs to get through two atmospheres...




























The first broadcast from Russia, aired in the West.

In the future, thousands of volumes will be written about the miracle of the past 12 days.

As the messages from Mars spread throughout the country, the hearts of the Russian people began to be filled with old faith, spontaneous manifestations of that faith occurred.



They died to create a new government headed by the Patriarch.
And now, as the new leader of the new Russia, he will turn to you.
This morning, our armies and occupying forces in other countries were recalled.

This is the first gesture of our new government.





You know what really matters? You!














No matter how bad they are, we've always managed to catch something.































Well, I'm glad you got out.

- All set, Lin? - Yes.










How else would you have this? When did you get the last message from Mars?











You thought you'd created a new Earth, and I'd destroy it.
A new paradise, and I will destroy it, too...













I'd be able to achieve much more by making you believe that it's Mars signals than if I made contact with him myself.


The first ones are the same ones we got.












Honey, you were there.

















There have been no new messages since my transmitter was broken.




If the first messages were fake, then the last messages were fake.


"It is better to rule in hell than to serve in Paradise."










Maybe, but it doesn't matter.

Do you remember what you said to me the night we got the first message?


























But as they were about to go into the fire chariot in the womb of eternal truth, the last message was received.
Only the first words of this message were recorded until the explosion severed the recording. The message reads:


As I say, the bells of millions of churches in all corners of the Earth are ringing a welcome for a new day of hope for the whole Earth.





Having a new look at the world, we, the rest of us, will be able to finish this message.





What a lovely feeling we're happy with him.









It's a famous screen subretto in the beautiful Zelda Sanders falds!


And her whole new passia, J.



And her new husband, Baron de la Boné de la Toulon.
They've been married for two months, but they're still happy as newlyweds.


Cosmo is Don Lockwood's best friend.








We're just good friends.


















They took me to Shaw, Moliera, the best classic.
We also received a good musical education at the Conservatory of Fine Arts.




We performed in the best concert halls in the country.
♪ Hard as a violin ready for love ♪ ♪ I'm gonna jump the moon high ♪
Strong as a violin ready for love


Strong as a violin ready for love





♪ Hard as a violin, ready for love ♪















I should've gone over the counter and smashed my glasses!

Okay, Burt?












Okay, I'll try you.




























Since then, Lina and I have had such a lovely relationship.
But, most importantly, I'm still following the motto:



And I'm sure you and Lina are gonna go into film history tonight in your best movie, "The King's Foot."


I think I'm ready to die for her.

Thank you very much.





Lena, you looked like a pretty good girl. Damn it!



Lena, the advertising department decided it would be much better if Don gave the whole speech.




But what's wrong with what I say?














































Thank you very much!





















- You're happy.



Good night.
- Good night.











































Actors are big roles, wonderful lines. Great words.























Don't be afraid, darling!












- Nice evening, Mr. Simpson.





Beautiful movie!




Am I a good actor?
While I'm at the Mental Pictures, you're the best.



Of course you're a good actor.

New Don Lockwood.









Okay. Now open the screen.




































And I want you to take the first piece.



You'll be the most beautiful Juliette I've ever seen.








In the morning, at noon, as well as at night.



I have to tell you how good you were.










- You never looked more beautiful.
















Good morning, boys.

"The first sonic movie, the jazz singer."
Full success in the first week."









Good morning.





Why make a new movie?
Let's let the old one out under a new name.








She's the first person to stand up to you since you were four years old!












I'm sure we should all be happy like--
But are we happy?




There's not a lot of humor in big people, and there's no humor in little people.



















But then they'll throw a big cake in your face.















- It's all set.






Okay!
Here comes our beautiful main character.





- Yeah, it's fine. Let's go to the shoot.













They weren't gonna fire her, I said it would be better.





Okay, Don.





I've never heard of more nasty.
That's great, that's great!







Who but you is such a big duck?






I'm the best actor in the world and I'd rather kiss the tarantula!










Okay. Everybody turn around!







Oh, dear mother, let's go to Alabama--

















- What do you need to know?







Beauty is my beautiful blonde.






- That's a good idea.





My beautiful, beautiful creature.



A beautiful girl is like a great work of art.































It's gonna be a new direction for the music movie.



- That was nice of you.




















I'm glad you showed up.



































- At first glance, yes.

It's a beautiful sunset.
















It's the most beautiful thing.






And I'm happy,








Very good.





- Very good!








Here's a good one.






























Yes, darling.


Yeah, honey, that's much better.





The sound passes through the wire into the box and is recorded on a large paraffin disc, but at the beginning you have to talk into the microphone.




Lena, we're all nervous on the first day, but it's gonna be okay.













Okay, okay.































- You two better not come in alone.








- What's the matter, darling?


Oh, darling, what luck.



It's good and loud, isn't it?



































But you, such big stars, you might be able to do it.


- The worst movie ever made.

Let's look at him one last time.
- The house will be auctioned in the morning.



- It wasn't that bad.














Anyway, you're ready for any outcome.

Did you see a bigger idiot on the screen than I did?










♪ Hard as a violin ready for love ♪ ♪ I'm gonna jump the moon high ♪
Hard as a violin ready for love!
It's too bad I don't do it in the Dualant Cavalry.





New Don Lockwood.





Add the songs, remove the bad scenes, add new ones.








I feel like today is my lucky day, March 23rd.
- Your lucky day of March 24th. - What?
It's 01:30, it's morning!
Yeah, and what a lovely morning!
Good morning.
- Good morning.

- Good morning.
- Good morning, all of you!
Good morning, good morning, good to be home late.
- Good morning, all of you!


Good morning! Good morning!

Good morning, good morning to you

Good morning. Good morning. We talked all night long.
Good morning, good morning to all of you!
Nothing could be grander han to be in Louisiana. (Nothing can be better than Louisiana )
In the morning, in the morning.
It's nice to be up late.
- Good morning. - Good morning, all of you!
Must be just as zippy if we are in Mississippi. ( It would also be good in Mississippi )

But the movie goes on at dawn, and I don't want to say good night.
Good morning!
Good morning!

- Good morning!
- Good morning!



( "Good luck" )



































Okay, if only for this movie, but....



Okay, I'll talk to Simpson in the morning.

I'm glad you think so.
Good night, Katie.

Good night, Don.

Now you're a big singing star, remember?






I'm so happy about him.



I'm ready for love.









And I'm happy again.




We'll keep this secret until we're ready for release so it doesn't leak in advance.



I guarantee Lina won't even know about Cathy's presence. Okay.





We need a musical name.









We need modern musical numbers.
































As soon as the painting is released, I'll give her a big promotion.



A new number for a modern scene.



Don't take a frowny look at old Broadway.
There's no need to despair in Broadway,




















When I hear a happy "bat,"





When I hear a happy "bat,"

When I hear a happy "bat,"







- She'll be better in the movie. - Okay, come on.



All set?





Beautiful.












































































"The representatives of the first side---"--" - it's me.

- We'd better get Katie Selden out of the credits.
- Okay, do it.






You gave this girl a role in the painting with Zelda, and in the next one she'll get an even bigger role, right?



I'm still more important to the studio than she is!







Oh, Pierre, my dear Pierre.

























You sang as well as Katie.





That was the first and last time!








































I can't tell you how touched we are with your "Dancer Dancer" reception, our first music movie.












It's too important.











What a lovely feeling I'm happy in him.

♪ In my heart the sun ♪ ♪ I'm ready for love ♪









You're my lucky star.

Your beautiful eyes were shining in me.


You've become my talisman. I'm happy in your arms.


You're my lucky star.











We need to pull ourselves together and wait for the plane.



It doesn't matter now.













It was at the lake last week. It was a beautiful quiet day, and huge hippos bathed in water.























Harry, the first aid manual says you can't drink alcohol.














The first love.








Horse, darling, I assure you, that's not what he meant.














Of course, there's nothing wrong with that, they make a lot of money.




I don't know, maybe you have the courage to go your way, no matter where it leads, to endure pain and suffering, to go through fire, water and copper pipes.







You need to travel, get an education.


You want to try it tomorrow? Nice weather, buddy.


Hunting in Africa... with a rich, beautiful wife.





Helen, honey, you don't have to pay attention to me.





Harry, why do you have to screw this up?
If I'm not destined to die happy, I'm gonna die in white heat.




Before I die, I have a lot to think about.


- Okay. - Harry! - Hey.






I'm Cynthia, Cynthia Greene. Sin, that's cute.















I'm just trying to be happy.

But I'm probably the only one here who's just trying to be happy.

It's okay to have a good time.


I remembered the good tone.













I didn't write the first time I lived in Paris.







And a cooperative where we bought ourselves wine, good wine... and cheap.


Honey. Breakfast's ready.



And this quarter, among these poverty, I finished my first book. A good book.



Harry, honey, I'm so excited.
Your first book will be published.



Honey, I've been looking at a lovely apartment on the Seine. Let's go to Africa.

















Big white hunter.


- We need to catch up with them.







Okay, Harry, if you go, I'll go too.























It doesn't do him much credit, but there's something missing if he doesn't have that feeling.


Even worse.

















When we were living in his apartment, I liked to just sit there and look at him the first time.

As soon as he finished his first book, he said we were going to Africa. I didn't want to distract him. I thought if I told him, I'd lose something.


All I need is a hand to lean on. What am I supposed to do?
Tell him now, and stop his new job, or wait for something to happen?






Museums have better horns.
But thirty-three inches, there's nothing to be ashamed of. - Good night.
- Good night.




Honey...




Perhaps you'd better spend as much time in bed as possible.












- What, honey?



You need a change of climate.



Honey, can't we just go home?



No reason. With that money, we can rent a nice apartment.






He needs material. He can't sit on his ass and stare at the bookshelf so he can snatch it out of someone else's books. And after Spain?




Honey, I want a baby more than anything in the world-- my own mother-in-law, who I could hold to my chest.




I'm giving up a part of my life to get what I need for my job.







Okay, if it's a matter of life and death, then fine, I'll go with you.













Don't, darling.



Whatever you say, darling.


You know, honey, I think this dancer likes me. The dancer likes you, and so do I, darling.
But his interest is new, and yours is old.
Old, old story.






Because there's a war going on there, darling.
There's a war going on here too, a little deadly war right at this table.
Honey, don't drink too much.



That's not true, darling. I shouldn't have worked so hard for happiness.





















It's not a fight, darling.


























Let's say she's no better and no worse than the others.
Beautiful woman in every way.


















Call me if you need me.


If you're happy with her, you've cleared your money, if you're not, you get the money back.






A new woman is a new book.




Of course, darling, especially when I'm swimming with you.









Because you don't know what you need.


You have something else I'd like to consider mine. So you're not leaving, darling?




Let go, darling, I'll stay here.




For the sake of courtesy, say something, darling. I don't have a word.





Why do you need it?





- Dante sings it. - I know, darling.




We have to.

























- Beautiful view.
- Yeah, it's very expensive.








I'm the only attribute you don't own, darling.
Do you do anything disgustingly important?
To be honest, Countess, there is nothing less important and more disgusting. Really?

Your last book went well.






Cosmopolitan magazine is asking for a new series of stories, and so is secular society.
Why should a writer feel guilty if people are willing to pay for his hard work?


That's great news.




I think I need you there.


That all my last books are junk.





You're young, healthy and beautiful.
It's okay.


Have you been hunting lately? No, why did you ask?
Very bad.

I had everything. What did I have? My name is in the papers, my pictures are in the best magazines.



My dear Cynthia, I couldn't get rid of my loneliness.




























I just admired your last book.

Is that important, Harry? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Nothing important. You can tear it up. Great.






You said there was nothing important there.
There's nothing important there.

Darling, darling, stop.











If a plane is faster than a horse, it doesn't prove the world is better. I meant our relationship.






Maybe I'm not pretty enough to find the Holy Grail.





All I knew was I had a gun in my hand. It's better if it wasn't.

It'd be nice to be in Detroit.

It'd be nice to be back in Detroit, where I lived before I got in here.

















- Honey, did you read my letter?




Honey, I was so wrong about the baby.


You should've spit on me.


They're coming, they're coming, darling.


My dear, when you hug me, I'm not afraid of death.


My dear.

My dear boy, I'm sick.
We'll find you a good doctor.




You don't look like a happy man.






You want to hear about the seven wonders of the world, how beautiful they are?

Didn't you learn anything new?



I get paid very well for entertaining people.



What is this, a catalogue of old books?








My last book?


















It's a beautiful place.





Old, dirty, stinking, wonderful hole.
Old hole.
Monsieur, the new hall is near.















I'm so happy for you, Harry. They were happy right away.









The interesting thing is, no one can explain what the leopard needed at this height.

It's a disappointing story with a bad ending.
















How beautiful you are!
Forgive me, my dear Cynthia. I've become much worse... in these empty years.
You need to rest, Mr. Street.
You need to rest, Mr. Street.

I need you.












At least lately.









We got what we needed.









It was good here.


















I don't need strength.

Try it, darling.





Harry, tell me, was it good for you here because she was with you?

Which you twice took me for. You were happy here because of her.



Buying me everything I wanted, everything new and interesting.







I thought if I went with you, you'd have a good job, and we'd be happy again.
Don't take my last pride.
I feel like I've seen you for the first time.















































Honey, are you in pain?
Honey, I didn't mean to hurt you.






I think I can handle a small paragraph, a small paragraph. I'm very specific.

Honey, in the first aid manual...



Honey, please.

The first aid manual says it's a clogging of blood vessels.
You have to make hot compresses to restore circulation.
He uses lion's potions, it's very important.
Honey, don't laugh.

I'm trying my own way too, darling.





What's wrong with you, darling?
What's wrong with you? It's okay. There!


It's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot, it's Honey, are you still conscious to listen to me?

You've got a really big rush on your leg.

Yes, darling.











Honey, he's here!


Honey, look.








Good morning, my children.









That field with the big white rock that's south of Anenescuilko?





- It's the biggest state.





They put in a new fence with barbed wire.


























































Grab what's on the white horse, that's what we need!













































































He's ready to perform right now.




















































































You don't know that I'm the best man in this country to know horses.


































Dinner's ready.
And that's the best thing you can do. Where are the others?




























You're smart and capable, you can even become an important person, have money and property, respect.










What's in you from a civilized man is a tendency to have good cigars.


























One strong blow from the North or the South, and Diaz will fall like an old bull.





































I think you'd better let him go.















- It'll be a great honor.





































































































It's a good horse.








Emiliano Zapata, my oldest friend.








Me and my family will be happy.




































My best horse.






And the one who has a good wife is kept by the angels.




















It's almost morning.





My dear friend, we're getting old.








I didn't like you, dear friend.

- Okay! It's gonna be!



You're not calm.
Maybe you're not happy.









We're gonna find a good piece of land somewhere, and we're gonna settle in there.

























Let the man sleep on his first wedding night.

























It's fertile, flat and well-irrigated, and I've been told it's got a nice house on it.




It's an old tradition to reward winners, and no one deserves it more than you.






































It was a good piece of land.







I promise, the first thing I'm gonna do is land. But I'll do it forever.



This will be the first step.
That's my first request.








Nice watch.
Darlings.























- He's a good man.





















He needs you.
He may not know that yet, but he needs your help.

I'm sorry to say this, but you need it, too.







They're good people.
























No, it's too expensive.
As expensive as your sons' lives?



















Thank you very much. Thank you.







Maybe it'd be better to kill him.






He also has good qualities.





























- Okay, okay.




It's gonna be okay.










What you're doing is bad. That's bad, I'm telling you.






















Two hundred and forty-four good peasants, your relatives. They're winning, but they'll never be able to enjoy it.















You don't need witnesses.







He was a good man, Emiliano.











Can good come from bad?









Two hundred and forty-four people were killed this morning.











An important message from General Villa.













































It's important.








I've got a good ranch now, I'll be ranch president.
I listen to roosters in the morning, not horns.

















































Okay.
































































And if you burn down your house, build a new one.

If the children are dead, raise new ones.



























And when we go back, there's a new hanger and there's corn growing again.














New guns, they haven't been fired yet. And the same machine guns.





And in a year, we'll be ready for anything.









Okay.
Okay.












- We can get the shells we need.











- But we need shells.









Hosefa, look at the little clouds floating and covering the moon.











They don't need me anymore.



























































































What do you want?








































All the better!














But it's better to be clear.








Such a beautiful woman is worth a lot of money.


I'm willing to close my eyes if I get my own!












We don't need pimps here!















































































It's good for you.

We're in bad shape.








































































We were so happy!

































Okay.













To put Carlo away, you were ready to turn me in, too!











































What do you want?



All the better!


Michele says we need to stay calm.
It's for the first time.




You're beautiful and you know how to use it.




Bad.



















It's a good opportunity.


- You have a good voice.















But I can get you a good job.








You don't have to be mad.

You're beautiful... and smart.




You deserve better.

I have a friend who's looking for cute girls for a party.
















I need girls like that.


We need to change things.
Take your clothes off, sweetheart.



Beautiful, isn't it?















See how beautiful you are?


Bad man?


I know what you want from me.



That's good.

Come on, darling.






























And that little cute one.








We're handing out cards to everyone, and they need to be filled in.




































That's what the marathon is for.

















But he only thought of you... and stopped freaking out. Because he wanted to offer you a better life.












No, Carlo, you'll see, we'll find a good lawyer.




In the last few days, I've been thinking a lot...


You're young, beautiful...




























I think he'll be happy if you find him a good lawyer.












- Oh, good.







If the participant surrenders, his partner continues to dance alone until he finds a new couple.




- Yeah, yeah, okay.











You need me to make money, not spend.
Ladies and gentlemen, remember, this is only the first night.







What do you want from me?


















He's the only one who made me happy.





You're very beautiful today.


Good job, Bravo! I don't know.
Don't give up, we're just getting started.


Okay, signorina.
We're being told that important people have arrived:









It's the first break in the marathon, but not for number 24. She has to dance alone for another four minutes.




I don't need this break at all!



















Dawn is the worst time for our participants.





It's my last day.


First time in a contest.


















I shouldn't have made you come here.




















He's cute!
















Very beautiful.














And we need this one here.

We need to remove Lucia's picture.




Couple number five needs motivation.















I'll do whatever it takes to get the picture printed on the front page.

There's no one better than Alda.








Marathon isn't the worst option yet.































But what's wrong with that?









They're good, they're capable of miracles.

If we want them to appear in court, we need at least 200,000 more.




















This way, I need a bonus!











I needed money.


You can make good money.

What else do you need?

















- Okay.
- Okay?

What do you want?











Good night.










































They need a power charge!














What do you want?
What do I want?






















Now I'm even happier that I came and sacrificed myself for Carlo.

I'm both happy and very scared.


































What do you want?
I need the money.






Do something good for once.
You know why I need money.








What do you want?










































Are you ill, Signorina?


















































If she gets better, I'll let you know.





















































I feel so bad.
Okay.




































They're so bad!
We were so happy.


















You'll stop at the first light.








- I'll take your car. - Okay.

































But I'm the most beautiful.

































I need some fresh air.


















































If you want the money, I'll give it to you.

















































































































You don't have to cuff me.










The ship's good, isn't it?











Daughters, you are my sweet, kind daughters!
My ship leaves in the morning...















It's a flower... it's a squirrel, it's better than it is... it's not in the whole white world!






























































Well...
























Father: In the morning he gave the word to return to that island far away! Stepan!



























Beautiful outfits of yours, yes, the Saraphane is... nicer to me.
All right, Nastinka.


















You don't need pearls, self-collars - see your side!"




























Don't remind me of the lovely sisters.










- Sisters are cute!





























Aren't we nice to you?



[Chuckles] Sisters, sweetheart, for what?





































Caliph was thrilled to regain his son and admired his beautiful fiancée.





Madame Treyman was... okay.







- Okay, well, Mrs. Treman, I'll give you a shot.





















- Do you still need us, Doctor? - No, thank you very much.































































Honey, what's wrong with you?






But it's all set.
Honey, stay there, I'll finish it and...


Yeah, yeah, good night.


- Good night, Harry. - Good night.

























I know, it's my bad habit.

Okay.






















Okay, if that's what you want.






You're the first person I dance with in America except my father.




That's what I wanted to ask you, darling.









- Good night, my girl.
- Good night.
It's a good thing you're here.
















Diane, I'm sure you told me all this for good reasons, but I don't believe you.

We spent most of our time talking about you and his plans for a racing car store.







And I thought if I could help you realize your dream, I'd be a little part of your life.























Hi, honey.





I'll buy you a juicy steak, even if I have to spend all my big salary.

Oh, honey, you're not gonna let some steak get between us.




Okay, you can go to bed tonight.


- Yeah, the others. - Okay!
- Okay!
- Okay!







































It's even better, especially since you're a professional, even if you haven't raced in two years.












Charles, if you really need it to play, could you turn it down?





New dress?
Yeah, I got the bill this morning.

Oh, Catherine, darling, you know simple things cost more.


















Dinner's ready, please.
But you turned right, sweetheart.

And besides, I think it's a good idea to have another man in the house.



It's probably not that big, but it's calmer, and nobody's gonna bother you.








I asked her if Miss Diane's toast was ready.







How wonderful to hear your voice in the morning. Even if it's just "helo."












- Good morning, Miss Diane. - Good morning, Ito.




I was surprised that these little uncomfortable cars were your passion.










All right, have a seat, please.






























He's a very nice young man.
I'll send you the papers, or I'd rather...

Okay, when you get back from San Francisco, call me.




Well... the first one. He spent all the money this month.





I'm terribly sorry, darling.














That's right, my dear, that was before I met you.



















We had a good idea, it just didn't work, that's all.


We'll have a good night.







Maybe it's better this way.







Okay, if you think it's best.
You little predator.












Good night.
- Sleep well.


All right, good night, Jane.













































Look, I'm not pretending to know what's going on behind this beautiful face.

















Okay.
















Beautiful.


Bill was very nice to me after you left.



They have a good company there.


















Okay, how about tonight?














You have beautiful clothes, big house.




I can't. That's not good, I told you.





















Okay, but there's no law that says you have to stay here.
















And we can buy a store, of course, until it's as big as we planned.






You better get out of here now.







I put in a new set of candles.

Sounds very good.




Help me, darling, I've looked everywhere.



- Thank you, darling.

But they're new.



Oh, thank you, darling.
Sometimes you can be very nice.
Oh, honey, I have to run.


There's never a man where he's needed.


I don't know what's gotten into him lately.












Goodbye, darling, wish me luck.








Okay, I'll give you a ride.

Beautiful.
That's the way I can get there, too.




- Okay, Ed, how are you?






Looks like you're gonna have to find a new place because of the Treymans' death.
















She's a very nice girl.
She's a very beautiful girl.





When was the last time you drove a Treyman car?
This morning when I took her out of the garage.






Oh, good.










Imagine how unpleasant it is, I know Katherine for 20 years, her father was one of my first clients.



Most of his condition has to go to Diane.








Good morning, Miss Sayden.

Today is the first day she spends without sedatives.







This girl Treyman must be in a lot of trouble.




Fred is the best lawyer in our country. We're lucky we got him.









It's okay, let her talk.






















I think... a very good chance.








And the evidence points to you more than to her.
























































Okay, now.







































He was either not identified or he wasn't found. But downstairs, in the switch mechanism, there was no such major damage.

The fact that the regulator was playing an important role here makes me, I mean, I'm inclined to think...














That's a very good question, sir.





























With his knowledge of mechanics and her good knowledge of victim habits, they prepared a murder, premeditated, cold-blooded murder.












Until the beautiful phrases stopped, and the facts began. And then it turns out there's no conspiracy.




If you have any doubt, then your sentence should be "not guilty"!


















It's a very happy occasion.
Breakfast will be ready anytime, Miss Diane.



It's a good thing someone thought we should celebrate.
























































Mary, it was important for me to see you in court every day knowing that you supported me.



We couldn't get to you in court this morning.





















Okay, if you want to talk about it, do it without me.

















I never knew he was telling a woman first.
That's why you deserve a big kiss.




No, waste the time you need, I want to make sure you find a good job.


Good morning, miss. Excuse me, ma'am.







I told you this morning.














You want to sign and have it witnessed, very well.

Anything to please a client, especially if it's such a beautiful client!















Okay.






































You don't have to pack your own things, Ito will bring them to you.




















Only this last chance.
You're making it worse for yourself, but good.















He didn't like people, and when he had to, he could stand up to them.


That's how Folko, the little fisherman, saw the Bélogic for the first time.




The shepherd was very happy to find the Bélogic, and the Bélogine firmly decided not to get caught anymore.







The Green Man was a real wild horse, but he loved a little fisherman.

















But the little fisherman didn't listen to the tabunist or the shepherds who once lied to him.





familiar scenes, faces of people with the same calling, way of life, and maybe more than that, call it a dream come true.









He's part of something bigger:


He's a member of the team, a team of people like him bound by one important goal.
The film you're going to see is the history of people bound by one important goal.
















Big, modern, it protects the rights and interests of those who sail, and all machines, documents, data here for the needs of seafarers. There's no other way.



Good seamen's headquarters are obliged to continue their business where others have stopped. For seafarers heading ashore away from the port house, it must be and is the second house where the visitors don't feel like strangers and where everything they need is at hand.
Like this MPM cafeteria, which is open to the public, but primarily serves the needs of seafarers.
Lots of places, lots of good, cheap food.















A ship-waiting sailor doesn't need to kill time, he can spend it with pleasure at MPM headquarters.





Some are good enough for any gallery.








It's very important to have a clean salary.




















For disabled seafarers or those who are too old to go out to sea, a week's disability payment of $25 will come in handy.






The Sailor's Journal, commonly referred to as the country's best newspaper for workers, is delivered by airmail to the MPM vessel everywhere, keeping seafarers up to date with MPM events.






With the best contracts in the maritime industry, IPM guarantees that seafarers will take full advantage of these contracts.



















You heard in the previous part of this meeting, our organizers prepared a report that we petitioned a large unorganized company to represent their employees on the issue of collective bargaining.





They also know that this organization has the best agreements ever negotiated in the history of shipping.

They know about the great benefits we offer to our people, they know about the payments we make for hospital benefits, vacations, they also know that in the event of incapacity, regardless of age, when you can't work for this organization,




They also know that with such great economic power, we do not abuse it.





dignity, security, a better life for themselves and their families.


Not in the title of the poster.....but not so bad.










Look, Naomi, you're too good for vodville.
Go back to the big stage.

It's great to be on a big stage.
Always new roles.

What's the matter, darling?




Dear Mother...













1900 wasn't meant to be happy for me. It was the beginning of a happy century.



Lots of reasons. Just think of me as the wife of a schoolteacher in this big and great town of Riverdale in Wisconsin.







I get information from the house about the state of affairs, and they're doing okay.












Do you need money?












No new building in the city square. And the rides on the sidecar are still very exciting.


























Dear sister, you can find me in the kitchen!



Okay, Joyce.













How could I forget the most important accessory?






























Miss Harper told her father that I was the best dramatic actor in Riverdale.







I'd be happy to recommend you.








I'm very happy if that's true.
If you decide to leave the teaching, you'll make someone a very happy wife.

























Training shooting is much more important than profit, Oli.

























Who's nice, Dutch?
You got a new girlfriend? Nope.
























If you're nervous, honey, maybe a glass of hot milk...









I almost got a good soup in the sink.






- Lily, Mom. Of course, you're Lily, and you're very nice.










Anyway, it's really nice of you to come.


Ted? You were too young to remember your mother.





How you've changed, darling!



Dutch says she could be the best hunting dog in this part of the forest.



He's the best.












Fine, fine.



Look, baby, the first thing I need to understand is that the actress of the show has to go on.
Okay, I'll be right up.
I'm so glad you're gonna see me as Baroness Barkley tonight.
















It's gonna be okay.





Same old chair and matchbox.













































Your dinner's ready.






















I'll make a good impression, Henry.













We paid too much for that... fun.





















Come on, darling.















Raise your seats in the front row.





An important bird?

Sarah is very nice.






All in position, act one.







































( whispering ) The first act is almost over.


Mr. Lexington, you can do as you wish.















If my game was good, I wanted to tell you why.










And Sarah... Sarah, that was great, really great.


Oh, Mom. This is the best day of my life!











I'm so glad you saved me.
He dances as badly as he plays. (laughs)







I liked him. That's very nice of you.















The best party we've ever had.
































We don't need any ice.



Come on, honey.

You know, when you smile, Joyce, you're as cute as...



Sarah, I'm glad you came.
I had a lot of work to do in the audience room.

Sarah, how good of you to come.


Thank you very much.
I think we owe a lot to our First Lady. No, no.

Well... that's nice of you.


















It was... when there was a good horse.






- Okay. - But not now.























Mom, how amazing. You were beautiful.
Thank you, darling. It's balm for me.




- Aren't you happy?













These old watches are late.









We'd love for you to stay.
Good night, Hortensia.
Good night, John.

As always, I'm the last to leave.
- Good night, Sarah. - Good night.
Good night.
I'm glad you came, Sarah.
Good night, Henry.
Good night.


Lena's gonna take care of it this morning.









Good night, Henry.








Good night, Henry.
Good night.
Good night, Dad.











But this morning, I'm gonna spoil myself.














Oh, honey, you were great.
You can play. Maybe even better than I could have.


I've always wanted to be with you, darling. Always.

















Aren't you ready?



She's beautiful.












































You're gonna be easy on old Paulie.


It's beautiful here, isn't it?




It's so nice here.











Okay.












Old friends?
I came to the house on the hill this morning.
Barely gave me an old signal.





Honey, where have you been?



I was scared I'd want more.

Who's more important? Are they or am I?















How nice of you to come.


Okay. We always do small things yesterday, and I thought maybe you could...















And I want him to be happy.

You're the woman he needs.















































He's... you're saying I'd better leave right now?
Yes. I think it's better.


It'd be better if you put it in vinegar for the night.
Okay. Lena, you can clean up.











Have a nice evening. Good night.
Good night.



Henry, I've been thinking about it, and I think it's best if I leave on today's train.





It's hard for her to accept this new situation.

No, Henry. It's better this way.














Naomi, maybe it's best for Lily to leave now as long as there's a chance.









































Good night. Good night.




Good night.
Good night.
Good night, Dad.
Good night, son.




But you have a career and a success in the big world and a marriage to a little man like me.





We always need what we don't have.



















Good morning, Lena.
Good morning.
Isn't this a great morning?
What a beautiful world.

Good morning, Theodore.






Good morning, Lena.
Good morning, Joyce.

What a beautiful day, isn't it?





- Good morning, Lena. - Good morning!






Good morning, Lena.
- Good morning, sir.

Good morning. Good morning, Naomi.
Good morning, Henry.























You're gonna let him put us both in this old town just because he's bored and old-fashioned.













Joyce will be happy if I'm happy.
I'm happy.











This is the last time I've come.





















I've been so good to you, honey. But he was too noble with you!





































They're gonna put this story in the worst light.
A story that's as old as the world.

You can go back to Chicago, it'll be better for Henry... and the kids.

















I don't know how bad it is, but...






Okay, Henry.











You'll all be better.





















Well, honey. I'll tell you what "celebrity" is all about.

















I'll be the last one in the posters, but if you want to join me...








It doesn't mean they're bad, or they want to be bad.
























What you sow, you reap like old days.





As a reminder of old days.
Why did you let us take back the good old days if you knew everything?







Okay. You two can be together.
Beautiful couple.





It's the first time he let a patient worry.


I even made Lily wear her new dress. And she's gone all happy.











She thinks we'll be happier without her.





You could lose what you need more than anything in the world.
Come on, honey.

I've got better things to do.






That's what's best for everyone.





































- Thank you very much.


















The doctors who have seen her for the past eight years have been interviewed.


















This first toy will be followed by others.


Mr. Jordan looks like a real magician who makes people happy.




































































And that I'd be a good mom.




They'll be waiting for me in the office in the morning.



















Thank you very much.

That's so sweet!








Nice to meet you...




Okay, honey, tell him everything about our "Mr. Extraordinary" and then come talk to me.


















Now that you've taken on such a concern, could you please check with the hotel staff when Mr. Graham was last registered?


That's very nice of you, but, thank you, it's okay. - Bob Wens called back?











He only loves the best.

























- I get it. - Good night.















































These are the most beautiful houses in the world owned by your favorite movie stars.


And here... on your right is the home of our dearest friend Harvey's most joyful man:


This big house belongs to a guy everyone knows as Santa Claus Edmud Gwen.





















This is the first time I've ever dared to pick up a girl.
Yeah, it's bad. I didn't mean to hurt you.





"I don't know any girls in this big city. Maybe give me a smile."








My name is Harry Graham, I'm from San Francisco. Okay... and my name is Phyllis Martin, I'm here.









If they meet a beautiful girl on the bus, they won't stand by to invite her to dinner.



I know a place where the best Chinese soup is served.


- Okay.




















- About six months. I needed a job, and Hannigan was looking for a pretty waitress to attract clients.


















Except you're the most beautiful stranger I've ever met on the bus.


- Okay.


But I'm better now.

Good night.







And I thought you should know first.
Didn't you know that such things should be the last thing a wife needs to know?
I'm serious. I'm a beautiful brunette with sensitive shoulders.

I hope you'll be very happy together.




Absolutely sure, darling.
She wasn't very pretty, but she was a funny mouse.














There's nothing to worry about, darling.



Good night.





Your wife is making great progress in this business.











And if you have the tools with you, Mr. Forbes, I'm ready to take it apart so you can see for yourself.












You applied a woman's spell to him. I'm so happy and so sleepy.
Good night, darling.






Of course, darling, someday we'll be gone.

And we'll go there first class.



Good night, darling.


The situation leaves much to be desired, but the service is excellent.




Just what the salesman needs.

"There's a lot of money waiting for you."
That's better.
One last thing.





Okay, after you're free.











But I always thought we were lying to each other. I'm ready.
- Good day, Sam.








Okay.
Good night, Harry.
Good night.








I thought it would be best for everyone.










It's much better now.




















Okay, I'm gonna change, too.



I'm glad I'm meeting you on your birthday.















It started with "Honey, Phyllis...", but clearly he found another frauleen there.


To your beautiful eyes, Phyllis.










I don't need anything from you. I'm scared that I might fall in love again.





- I'm so glad you're back.






No, you'd better stay home.
Besides, I bought the last plane ticket.

Ten o'clock. There's a transplant in New Orleans.

















Barlow with his new contracts, or your mystery mice?


Oh, Eve... this last trip!





I'd be so happy...









In the last four years after I found out I couldn't have a baby, I hated myself and the whole world.











I'll do it tomorrow morning.



A final landing of 516 American Airlines is due to take off in Miami with a transplant in New Orleans.

















But I didn't want to remember the circumstances of our last meeting.


Good to see you.
























I think she really needs you right now.
Her room's upstairs, first to the left.


It's good to see you.





What did this woman mean when she said, "She needs you"?














You know, the first time I've ever seen anything so personal and meaningful.






- Okay.
Phil... I'm glad... I'm so glad I found you. Me too.
















I'm glad she means so much to you.













I'm sorry, darling...




Are you okay, Harry?











Are you sure you need me?


You're gonna laugh, Mr. Jordan, but for the first time in my life, I felt like I needed someone.





















But it's my fault we don't have a son. It's a good thing he won't see it again.



- I missed the most important thing. - This has nothing to do with you.

















I called him this morning.






And he's gonna need a little bathroom-- ours is too big for him.

If it's so important to you.
Yeah, it's more important to me now than ever before.

Well... we'll meet Mr. Jordan.



















Aren't you happy? Of course I'm happy.

But it doesn't matter anymore.





















- What are you talking about? It doesn't matter.
No, Phil's important.



Much worse, Ricky's mom.


Pretty good story for Sunday paper.

















I wanted to talk to Phyllis again this morning.






















Okay.













- Yeah... we need you.














Honey, Phyllis was just a minute ago watching you sleep.



Darling... how wonderful that you've come. Why didn't you tell me?













Honey, you gotta do this.






There's a lot of irony in this case.








As the defence has noticed in this case, there is a great deal of irony - cruel irony.

Maybe they both need him.







When a person, for good reasons, violates the law of morality, there is no need to invent a punishment.






















- What's wrong with that?
Really, what's wrong with that? :)............................................................









- Be a good girl, give me a few more minutes.






- Is that good?














So how's the wolf hanging out with the little red hats?

















Isn't it beautiful?
I'm glad you chose black.

You don't mind if I wear it first for one night.






Of course, it's your birthday, and it's beautiful.










Maybe it's better, though.












I'll be ready soon!





They just got a new Detective Mickey Mullet.
It's about a beautiful redheaded detective debutante who was hit on the head, a knife in the back, a bullet in the abdomen...








And yet it's better than a cheap book novel, Crystal.















That's so sweet of you.

























The horse I'm ready to eat is probably dead by now.
Are you sure you don't want to come with us, darling?





- Happy birthday, darling.






Dear Nora, you must have come to terms with the fact that I can't write hot letters.

I think I'm getting even worse right now.








I don't think I need to tell you anything else. I hope you understand.





- Hello, darling.




I've decided to take your word for it and accept the offer you made to me this morning.










Okay.








So I'm ready!

Yeah, everything's fine.












Good night!
Good night.
















He's very successful with the ladies, Mr. Prable.





I need to do a little investigation right now.





























She's a beautiful woman standing at the bottom of the waterfall.
That's so sweet.
It doesn't make any sense, but it's nice.




















Aren't they cute?






- Thank you very much.





































Like a beautiful girl standing at the foot of the Southern Cross!

Beautiful!

That's good.









It's a little California rain.


















Especially to remember our first date.


I think I'd better get a coffee.

I think I'd better lie down.




Coffee's ready.










I think dancing was a bad idea.
You'd better lie down.

















I'm the first one in the bathroom, and you make orange juice.






Get up, darling.
Another bright, good morning!

















































It's not the first pair of women's shoes I find here.










He wanted to get to the scene first before the others beat him.









The cleaning lady said he was still playing this morning.



















- Okay.
















It's usually the first thing I...









Nice and calm.



































"A beautiful blonde defending her honor."


For the people of the East, all American women are beautiful blondes.





Mr. Mayo, how do you know... that this girl, Blue Gardenia, is beautiful?
They're always beautiful!



And for my good friend Captain Haynes of Homicide."










"Her voice was calm and friendly even after she drank from half a dozen..."













- Honey...

























I need a point of view!


























In the front row when the hydrogen bomb exploded.














Dear Blue Gardenia,




Your story is... important to us!
If we get to know her first, we'll try our best to help you.





























But dinner's ready.
- I don't need any dinner!



We're having a little family crisis.







You haven't been yourself in the last few days.
















Ready, Mr. Mayo.












The size of passion is important, lady... but first, tell me, what size shoes do you wear?



Excuse me, ladies, but your legs are too big.






How sincere were you when you wrote in today's paper that you were looking for and ready to help Blue Gardenia?






- Your old buddy...











We'll be very happy to hear it.









































































It's as good here as it is everywhere.



Okay.


















They met in Naples during World War I.




Where am I supposed to start?











My newspaper and I need an exclusive story.
We're willing to pay the best lawyer in town for this.

































There's a big gap in her mind most of that night.








This is the first time since you came into my office.
And for the first time since I found out about that night.




In memory of their first date.



It's a good song.

























I need time to prepare the evening issue.








You're a big surprise to me.





That's exactly what she needs... someone she can trust.























She's gonna get into your little black book, too?



And then, like in a good old story, she disappeared in the fog.

We listened together to good music from the jukebox.

















Good night.

After Homer called, I started looking for your new black taft dress...



















Because that girl is willing to trust herself in your hands.


















It's not a very beautiful story.






I needed more time to think about it.































You'd better go yourself, Miss.


You've done a great job, and we appreciate it.









I'm glad it didn't come to that.















A journalist caught a beautiful killer girl!



























Our good client.





















































The last time my picture hit the paper, I was bitten by a dog!


How about a big sigh of relief, Miss Larkin?

Beautiful!
Now show the boys a nice smile.








































What are you looking at? Need a picture of the captain?








It's bad.









You'd better leave.


Good night!















They'll dock in New York in the morning.




And one last thing:





























The Goyaz is so scary that you're ready to drown?




























Maybe it's for the best.










































You want Van Zelten's daughter?














I don't need a translation.










Kid, of course he's nicer than you are.










It's really better to leave tomorrow. Maybe Honolulu.








































Good night, Johnny.

















I don't need any more guys.

Good night.




















It's a New Year's Eve meeting at Maxwell's.
















Good old whiskey.




It's a beautiful family portrait.










































The advantage is mine. I thought about it first.






























I need a million dollars and I'll have it.































It's not that bad.









- Good night, friends.

















That's not what you said on the eve of New Year's. She grabbed me and smacked me in the forehead.


















A list of stolen banknotes, fine.










Good morning, Mademoiselle.









"Dear Susanna, don't worry. I have to go.


Okay.















Go to Vandom Square and check on them when they left this morning.







I need her, I have a date with her.













It's better this way. Mademoiselle can't stand surveillance.
















You're never the first.

































I got on a plane this morning.















































You needed a phone.






Our surprise will be ready the day after tomorrow, near Paris.

Tomorrow morning, Racine Street, 29. It's an old liquor store.












To me, you're the last fool!
















It's good to ask questions.













You're a worse bastard than he is!
Monsieur's ripping off a big pile of white gloves on May 2nd!




Never important people do dirty work.


Aren't you glad you came?



I was the first one on this case.

I'll be happy to fight against him with you.



































This morning's trip to the liquor store behind the villa's address.















I saw Siegella this morning.








Anyway, we're entertaining Miranda until 4:00 in the morning.







Only to preserve the trust of our dear Lemmy!


Dead Sigella isn't that bad, but since he's alive...
Maybe it's better to deal with him.
















I came from Cannes this morning in Mademoiselle's car...

































This morning, after we talked about Mademoiselle, the phone called twice.
























If anyone needs jewelry... he's gonna have to take it out of the safe.




Mademoiselle is so sweet.










I have friends, lovely people, but completely...




But if Miranda's as cute as you say... and knows the tricks, it's hard to predict her reaction...












Old friends, you know?




















- Good food, good manners!
































Damn it, Lemmy, I'm so happy to work with you.










































































I need her.












The car didn't start at the last minute.

































I'm the last fool.
The last one.
Sleep well, you idiot with a big letter.








































Now, there's a lot of money, right next to it, and...




I was with Charlie at the window on the first floor.







































How's our dear Miranda?





























































































After all, it's gonna be okay about the briefcase.









- In France, it's too bad.










Now you'd better go to the warehouse and wait there.



















Siegella's ready to meet you at the warehouse.




Okay.





























Okay.




















Constance said I was needed for an emergency.













- Are you okay?
It's no good, you'd better cut my ropes!









All the worse for me.



And it's nice...













































































































You're the best gourmet in Shafther.










Sir, Private Robert Lee Pruit, ready to begin service. At ease.


Okay. I always talk to new guys.

If a soldier is good, he can quickly become an officer. But I have to show you the dream.













I was the best maiden in two years.

The next day, he became the best maiden.
- But I was better.












I need a good average weight.














The battle program is the best way to keep the spirit alive.


































- Everyone goes their own way.









You need a case.












- Good morning, Sergeant. - Good morning, ma'am.

















- I've seen better.













- But it's okay, right?










































I hate it when good guys are put on.

















All I know is he's the best soldier I've ever seen.

















The rifle is your best friend.

















- Okay, I'll take it into account.
Okay, I'm going.








Okay, I'll see him.















- Does it matter?















You're doing well, Sergeant.































- Do you need a company?




































































You're okay, but I'm gonna go. There I saw my friends at the door.
Besides, you don't need me anymore.





























































Miss Kipfer is paying us to be nice to all of us.

Does it matter? It's important.

















- No, tell me. I'm gonna need the bills.



























It was okay, but all of a sudden, the pain started.



He came in drunk at 5:00 a.m. I was lying on the floor. I begged him to call a doctor, but he ignored me.



















I got on the first boat.











She's cute, but she drinks like a horse.














You need it more than I do.


You're so cute in front of him.







I was good, and they know it.















The last time we started talking about boxing, he cried.












Okay, Pruit. Now bury the paper.




















Now you're ready to apologize to Sergeant Galovich?
No, sir, not ready.






- What are you talking about? Lost a good boxer.






- Okay.








It's better than sitting in a lockup. How's it going, sir?




















Okay.



























No way, even if it's the last beer in the world.










Look, I have a really big family. 15 people.


























Okay, Fatzo, you're looking for death, then come here.























That's a nice name.





































Okay.




I appreciate your choice, but we need it.






















- Coke, big Coke.































A big one!

















But the old Angelo tricked them.


































- Okay?












































Look, this isn't the new couch?

Are you okay?















That's a good point.



















The best.



- Honey. - What? I want to marry you.







Pru, I thought we were happy as it is.









Pru, we love each other, we need each other.
















And I'll be happy because if you're right, you're safe.
You're gonna make it, honey.

I'm telling the truth when I admit I need you.





























Good guy.
Old Fatso does everything quiet.
















- Looks like you need a lesson.




I'd be happy to make recommendations.































































I'm gonna make a toast, kiddo, for bumping old Galovich.









I'm old, you could die.




Okay... we'll sit together.














I'm happy as it is.







That's a beautiful name.
Beautiful.








He's the best soldier in the army.














Just yesterday, it got bad.












Do you need me?


Do you need me on a case?

Okay.






























Holmes, the first thing I learned in the army is that an officer has to take care of his people.
Looks like it's the first thing you've forgotten.














































He's AWOL, he's in big trouble.






You don't have to be an officer now. Holmes is no longer in the army.






















In memory of Robert Lee Pruit, the new world record.






Big ambition.
Sunday morning. Eight isn't here yet.




























- I need an order.


















































Pru, stay till morning.







































Isn't it beautiful?
This is the most beautiful place I've ever seen in my life.








He was the first to fly, and the Japanese hit him.
































































- How's that old wheelbarrow?

































- Who's the lucky girl this year?











































- On one of the most important days off for me, you prefer to go to...







- I'm so sorry, darling.

















He's our old friend, isn't he?

- I wish you had a problem talking to me about it first.








Your lunch is ready.





He's our old..."










I'll clean up tomorrow morning.




















"For a cause that is very important to me, we are always equal."



- What's going on here is an old story.






To celebrate this event, one of the first legally-righted cars went from the Metropolis Hotel in London to the Metropolis Hotel in Brighton.


Here's a very beautiful car.









My grandfather bought her a new one.






Thank you so much and good luck.











































He said it was an old car, but that's how he wrote it.





Good morning, Wendy.
Good morning, buddy.





- Well, it doesn't matter.








It's a nice dog and she's got great manners.













- All cars on the east side, first of all...











- Are you happy, darling?

It would've been bad without you.



I'm glad I went.
















I have to say, given that I haven't had much time to repair the old girl, she's been very good.















- Oh, honey, it's not 10:00:30.

















Honey.








Honey.



Thank you very much.
















- I'm so sorry, darling.


It's not that bad.






I'm ready to go home.





























- Pab's "Old Harry" next to us, we'll stop and have lunch like kings.






























Is your old clay pot completely broken?

- Are you sure you don't need help?



Next time the old engine dies, bury it.












Next time the old engine dies...




















- Hang on, darling.


- Sorry, honey.





I need a wrench.

He's got the right key.





- Give it to me again, darling.
























- Honey, wait in the car for a minute.



































































- I bet on new candles, but it's the carburettor.


- Cars, like everything else, need to be cared for.
What can you expect from an old worn-out Darracque?






- Well, what did you like about your first run?














It's my first time.



- If you don't mind, no. I'm a bad dancer.

























One of my greatest wishes all these years has been...















Congratulations, Ambrose, I'm very happy for you.












- Thank you, darling.























Oh, honey, I love you!






















Every year he comes here with a new girl.















- Oh, honey, are you sure?


















































Wendy always seems happy to see me.



I think the answer to that question is that Wendy has gotten much better in the last three years.






After all, this old pot is unlikely to be able to do that.






Genevieve will be the first if I want to.
- I don't think you're ready to make a bet.
- Of course I'm ready.

- Who's gonna be first in London?


























- I'm so sorry, darling.

- Honey, you can't drive without sleeping.






We made a bet about who gets to London first.


















He said you were always happy to see him.




Oh, honey, I'm sorry.










Alan, darling.




















Good morning, kid.

















- My dear friend, when this car touches...









Come on, darling.




























































Honey, come out and push.




















































- Oh, thank you, thank you very much.





















I need to get to the workshop.

- I'll be happy to help.

- Yes, thank you very much.
- Back from the big race?






































I needed to be towed...











You're worse than him.






- Need some help, sir?














- As soon as you're ready, Duchess.


- Oh, he's as good as Alan.


















































- Oh, honey, don't worry so much.
You're gonna be sick.
- I can't do more.
















































































That's what it's been like for the last 49 years!

























































It's the last drop!



















































But if your old pot goes to pieces, you asked for it.



















- Well, who's first on the bridge?
- Who's first on the bridge?









"..if your old pot goes to pieces..."



- Who's first on the bridge? - Deal!

























































Let me tell you, although we don't know her, she's beautiful, sir.

It was the first car I acquired, Darracque.





- The first car I bought, sir, Darracque.

























- Thank you very much, sir.












- Oh, honey, when you were standing there...











I wouldn't bet if I wasn't ready to lose.












































Black mountains, actually, east. At least the last time they were there.







































































































Turn on the first side road.
























































Some sources have reported that in the last 24 hours...




































It's about you, they're gonna tell you how much to pay, okay?













Come on, big one.

































But I didn't need them.










We need to find an excuse to open the hood and turn off the radio.


We need to kill him. You can't just kill him.
He'll kill us at the earliest opportunity.
We have to take a chance.
As long as he needs us, we'll be alive.



















- I turned it on. He needs to warm up.

I need to stop to shut it down.






























I need to get a better look at this car.














Need some help?
Intensified search for Roy Collins and Gilbert Bowen, reportedly last seen with Emmett Myers, serial killer.









But there's one very important point.















I told you, we need to stick together.























We interrupt our music program for an important message.










That's what your sick ankle needs, Collins, a long walk.






































































I'll make a deal tomorrow morning.










Thank you very much, sir.




If you were less worried, you could run away.

























Good morning, Mrs. Paige.





Tax inspectors aren't good at jokes.








- It's gonna be a big mistake.




In two months, the first and last.

















































- Hey, honey.












- Thank you very much, next time.





The first rule is that men should be wearing a tie.




Remember, the guys from the diners aren't part of our plans. We need people at the Bergdorfs fur salon.
- But he's cute.
- All the guys at the gas station are cute.
















And last time at the gas station, I got out of the car for a minute, and I had to walk.












































It's a very nice tool.










This morning, I opened an old magazine and saw you.


























We need to decide something now, or we're gonna be out on the street.
There's only one thing we need.

You don't have to catch an entire pack, you need one big bear.























I'd love for you to join us.




















- I know a new place...














- This way, darling.









































































- He's old. - Mm-hmm.
Rich people don't get old.






























But he's making expensive orders.








It's an ancient Eastern tradition, they show that they're happy to have a guest.
Tell him he's very nice.
























I don't think he needs a mother.
Our first model is called the rainbow over Florida.










The next model is called "Good afternoon, sweetheart."





- But he's so sweet.


























































I've got an old rum Melford, I'll get you a drink.





I've been listening to her since New York, good old Harry James.







- I'm sick, I'm shaking.





























- Is that bad? - Low temperature.








































- I need to be there for a few minutes.
















That's exactly what I need.








Sweet Shatsey, I think it's time for us to say goodbye.









Do you believe with love at first sight?





That's the sweetest lie you've ever told.


It's no use, sweetheart.

I'm old to you.






- Good night.











- Nice to meet you.




I couldn't want more happiness than being your husband... and more misery for you.


Good night, darling.


















































- First of all, you're beautiful and young.

















- Very nice.










I think it's the most beautiful view in the world.










































































- Since the first time I saw you.









- You're very beautiful...


Don't I look like an old maid?
I haven't seen a girl so different from an old girl.


























It was so beautiful.















If you're rich, you could build a bigger house.















But I... oh, honey...






- I told you the first day. - I said I was a Ranger.










It's expensive, but it's safe. No one's gonna see me like that.
















She's not used to expensive gifts.










There's a big difference between these situations.









The thing is, even when things are bad, man remains the master of his destiny...


















































































- Nice to meet you.













































































- It's Shatsey, darling.




- Nice to meet you.
- Isn't he cute?




- Don't count on any more.





- Nice to meet you, Mrs. Paige.

































- Nice guy.
























































So take her. I don't need it.














Mr. Brookman, darling.








Honey, what time do you rate your fortune?


































It's so beautiful for an immigrant, German, a man without a home.












When was the last time you confessed?











Every night I lay awake, and I thought we only needed $2,000.
Alma, with 2,000, we can start a new life.

























- Good morning, Father Logan.
- Good morning, Father.







Well, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter.




Good morning, Father Milley.
Good morning, Father Michael.
Good morning.











Well-well, Father Benoit, you need to learn how to stick your own tires.



Good morning, Father.

Good morning.
Good morning, Father.
Good morning. I have an appointment.




































This morning, as usual, I arrived at 8:30.


















Good morning, Sergeant.








Ruth, honey, what a nice surprise.


So you're better? You looked pretty depressed this morning.








- Mr. Keller, good morning.
- Good morning, Father. You came back quickly.










Father, why did you come to see Villette this morning?






























On the contrary, we're happy, thank you.






















Priest. It's very important.

































He devotes most of his time to his parishioners.

























































Yes. When a murder is committed, the police need to know everything.
















So I didn't explain it very well.






I respect your opinion, but I need your help.






The next morning, I saw a priest outside Villette's house.


Too much mystery could lead to the conclusion that it was the same priest.






























Ask them what they want.










Drink, darling?

















































I never pretended. I hope he's in trouble, big trouble.










I need to see you.






Tomorrow morning, I'm going to Levis on the nine o'clock ferry.


- Good morning.
- Good morning, Father Logan.


Ruth, I was questioned by the police, they saw us talking at Villette's house the morning before, they're trying to figure out who you are.







You need to think about yourself and your husband.















































That's very nice of you.
What does he want?


I was seen on the ferry this morning with Michael Logan.




























You met Father Logan this morning on the ferry.





You also met Father Logan the morning after Villette was killed.










I saw Father Logan the night before, and I told him I was seeing Monsieur Villette at 9:30 this morning.



















I've taken note of everything you've already told me, madam, but I need to know why you were supposed to meet Monsieur Villette.
















Before you first met Father Logan, did he know you were being blackmailed?







Your wife was seen outside Villette's house with Father Logan, and this morning she was again seen with Father Logan, and she told us about her meeting with him the night of Monsieur Villette's murder.




























He was one of the first volunteers, and I hated him for that.







It was our last night together.









At first, he wrote me long, serious letters, and I didn't need serious letters, but I would prefer letters rather than their absence.











I was happy.

















We're late for the last ferry off the island.

It stopped raining this morning.





"Good morning, Madame Grandfort."





































































I had to lie, Pierre.
I lied earlier, I should have lied yesterday.






































He thinks he can tell the police, and I'm ready.


- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning, Father. I came to see Father Logan, but Keller said he was gone.












































- First.



































I said everything you need to know.















































And yet you didn't see anything wrong with going on a secret date with a woman?















If so, why did you hit Villette when he showed up this morning?




































Maybe you're finally ready to tell us the truth.

Perhaps you're ready to tell us your version?


So you grabbed the first thing in your hand, and hit Villette, and kept hitting him until you opened his skull.


Remember also that you do not judge the accused for his relationship with Madame Grandfort and take them into account only in part, which may relate directly to the murder. One last point.

































She needs to lie down.

















Murphy, he needs to be taken alive.































What do you want, Inspector?






































These poor hands, they're so beautiful.











































- Yeah, it's the first time.
The first time is always like this.


































Let's hope for the perfect results of the operation... I mean, depressing.














New client.







You have to take a picture of someone, and they won't let you. We need an invitation.
































Here you go, madam. Ready.





He's an old friend.












She's beautiful!













I really need an excuse for a divorce.
































































Not to the worst.




She was crying in the morning for nostalgia.



Last time in Naples, remember?








You're more beautiful than you used to be.






















































- Nice to meet you.














Ready?

I'm the first.


We need a driver's hat and boots.















































I need Lynch's agency. It's, I think, a newspaper...














- All right, darling. Suit yourself.















- Doesn't matter.
















What makes you think I'm happy?






























Oh, darling!





They have so many virtues that little weaknesses can be forgiven.















I can't offer you anything yet, but it's not bad to start...












- I'm so glad!



But he's being told it's a responsible job, and we need a deposit of 200,000 lire.


- When do they need money?














































- Take it easy.
















































I need the money. Got in trouble.





















Am I that bad?



































- You're not ready yet!
















- But it's a big deal!
































You'll be the first to be ashamed after.







































All morning.











Sorry, honey, you can count it.












































It's a pleasure.



































Good to see you.








You pay the first deposit, you sell it for cash, you find the next one, and it's all over again.

























In the morning, the pickle mask strips off the wrinkles.

She's sweet, though. She's loyal to her husband and lovers.

























Good night.


Cesarina, the bath should be ready when I get up.



















- I don't need help!






























































You admit it, I'm gonna let you go home, and it's just gonna get worse.

































There was a theft at the scene of her last job, and I...



































Look at me, darling.












I really needed it, I couldn't think of anything.




I should have given it to Oswaldo.

























































You don't have to. - What else is there?




















- Take it easy.


And bought a new car?














































































































She needs a doctor, forgive her.







I'll see you in the car, darling.











































Large highways and bizarre interlocking roads.








We'll go south of Ensenada in the morning.

















Very handsome.
























No, he's too old for that kind of thing.

Very beautiful.
















Beautiful names.




































































A new gas station could appear at any moment.








- No, honey.










It takes them three days to celebrate the fissure.






We need water, amigo, remember?











- I'm glad we're getting to something.




















Honey, the worst is over.

















I was glad we finally came to Doug's beach, but there was something in that pier, I don't know what.

I hated him at first sight.

















Dad, Mom, I'm glad we're here.





I'm glad we're here.













- Doug, lunch's ready.











































































Go first, son.





























Honey, don't worry.







- No worse than a bruised leg.


If I hadn't climbed that old thing, nothing would have happened.


















That's it, darling.













- Doug, we need to get you out of here.



























- We need to get a stronger one.


























Okay, honey.



















I'm in trouble. I need help.

I need a rope.






















Or do you think I'm a bad artist?














First thing we do is, when we get home, I'm gonna take you to the eyeist.



















We needed a rope, and I found it.


















I need help.






















Big guy, American.

















Let it be our little secret.













































Bobby, I mean, you don't have to panic and run.

















Last time I was with someone else's wife, she was happy to forget her husband.















Your beautiful figure's gonna melt on the way.






















































































She's gonna need your help.






















We need to hide for a while.




































I need a woman to smile otherwise than a high?





Dad, should we go fishing on one of those old fishing boats?
















We're gonna get you out of here, darling.


We'll pick it up with the next big wave.




























Be ready to get him out.
It's okay, honey.





It's gonna be okay, honey.
























Good morning, monsieur.
- Here are the beautiful, fresh...

- I need some onions.
- It wasn't until this morning.




I tried this morning, you're gonna lick your fingers...













- We need butter.





























You see, my father told me that his old friend, Mr Godet, could help me, and when my father died and I had no one left, I wrote him a letter, Mr Gode.
































Of course, you know, I can't pay you when I'm studying, but you're gonna have a really nice bed and a stove to cook your own food, and in the morning, you're gonna open a store and work a little as a saleswoman, and... you're gonna be my little assistant, huh?

























I need half a dozen.



I took her off the street, a girl without references, no family, no money, and... colour, monsieur... and I gave her a night and a meal and a great opportunity to be a saleswoman.
















































Have a nice day, sir.


































- Hey, listen, can't old Pierre Corvier give her a job with other girls?


































































Oh, everything was fine when I was living with my dad.


















Yeah, they're very pretty.




















Have you seen old Corvier?












She needs a job.










































It was... beautiful.

Thank you very much.















That man wasn't bad at all.





































- We need to discuss things,



- There are more important things.





- Pick it up, Lily, darling.

































Lily, darling.









I saw her first.



















Don't listen to him, darling.





All right, keep it to yourself, you old witch.


- Rinardo, I insist you treat me with more respect.



She needs to meet a girl, but, believe it, if it were a man, she's...







The fox is the worst kind of wolf.





















Oh, Margaret is very beautiful.


Margaret is very beautiful.

















- Sing something, darling.


Any old song.


It's an old song and...




























Thank you... very much.


















- Everybody's happy, huh?





























Truth be told, he really likes the idea of a new show.




Now go to sleep, go to sleep, and have a dream of magicians, beautiful magicians.












It's wiser in the morning.


"Tomorrow is wiser."
And another morning... and another and another morning with this audience.






















I need a whole world.





























And then the biggest of them came.














The first time you had money, and what are you doing?































Well... new dress.
New shoes.
It's beautiful.










So the nasty duckling becomes a beautiful swan, and you don't like it because there's competition from now on.



















The people from the hotel come to the carnival to watch our show, to see our little lady...
in a new dress.

It's very beautiful.

"The last performance tonight"?





























































Thank you very much.





You're gonna be a juicy piece of money, big luck.






Look, I'm wearing it, and now I'm always gonna wear... my beautiful, big, wide gold ring.


























Beautiful.
































I don't need it anymore.

My car's gonna be bigger.



















It's not gonna get any worse.

























Your first performance was a sensation.














I dare say these moments are the happiest moments of her life.




- every day a new show...












Well, maybe not tomorrow, but we'd like you to be ready to open in about two weeks.















We need to talk about this.













You know, the body is very important to the dancer.








Are you talking about your new career that's gonna beat everything you've ever done as a dancer?


































But I've had a lot to think about in the last half hour.

I know I dreamed like a little girl... without seeing what I didn't want to see... but, uh, you want to know something, Mark?
We sometimes grow out of our feelings and ideas how a little girl grows out of her dresses, but sometimes things happen at the right time... in the right place.

It's time to lose your parents, and it's time to fall in love with a beautiful magician.

























It was love at first sight.


























It's very expensive.


























































Do I have to make a new doll for the part of me you saw?








Anyway, I didn't do anything wrong!







Joey's not bad, but he's got a problem in the summer, 'cause mom's working, and I have to take care of him.
I'm glad it's Saturday.











- I'm the first to hit.






















Remember the ride where you gotta get into the cans?



- Nice hit!



Joey's still a kid, but that doesn't mean he needs to be teased.
Aren't you glad you're gonna get rid of him all day?











































Don't make that face, it's not that big a sacrifice.











































- But we have to kill him first.

I need another idea.





We need to get Joey into the desert and tie him up with a piece of ice with a rattle snake inside.























Don't touch it, Joey, you're too young.





The real weapon needs to be held like this.





Now we have to aim...


















We have to disappear!


It'll remind you of Lenny, he doesn't need her anymore.






































Look, I've got a new assistant.
















Last ball.
Last ball.
























































Step back, don't you see you need air?















Are you ready?













































Of course not, it's your first job.

































Have you seen a little boy with a cowboy revolver?




Come and win a big balloon!









Whoever hits all the kegs wins a big balloon!






















It doesn't matter...



Why did the waterfall have to bring me here at 5:00 in the morning?
To show me how big he is and I'm small?








Good morning.
- Good morning.




























He'll be as good as the real one.









Look, honey.









Let him show you the bungalow, darling.


Beautiful view.















New guests have arrived.























Do you mind, sweetheart?


He won't be back until the first day.



Mr. Qua, I need to run to the market while George sleeps.



Thank you very much.








Give it to me, darling.













Ready, darling?

































Look, for a dress like this, you have to start making plans at the age of 13.




































She's beautiful.
























The current is calm.












You're lucky to find yourself a beautiful girl.










At least lately.

I met her in a big beer room.








He knew the winters worse, and he did well.










































Good luck, honey.































We'll get up early and get on the bus first.









The first person I met, just as long as there was a man.
















We need a profile.





























Anything important?
- Perhaps the most recent statements?
































































































That's so sweet of you.



- He's been running around all morning.


We'll show you the Wind Cave, Kozi Island, the old fortress, the best fishing you've ever had.






















What happened, darling?





Honey, maybe it was a nightmare.






- Honey, wake up.





















Help me pack, darling.

































I need to talk to him about Mr. Loomis.




These bridges were built at great risk in 1885.







































I'd do it for you if I needed it.

















So, at 5:00 a.m., right here. Okay?

Thank you very much.


Here, honey, take this.









It's not that important.













Is Loomis alive? Polly, you need to check your head.











Good night. Thank you, sir.
































All the worse.












Come on, darling.

































































































- Here you go, darling.




















George, honey, hurry up.



























































This is my last clean... no!

George, honey, we're gonna have to hurry, or we're gonna be late.












Thank you, sweetheart.
My old dress is no longer fit, but I decorated it...




















- Honey, please...




It's your last night in the nursery, and my last word.



Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It's the last drop!










































Good night, sweetheart.









































She's not angry, she's a beautiful nanny, even though Daddy says...















I'm so glad you came today.




- This is my last night in the nursery.






















I'm so happy to kiss you!




















She says you're a big, disgusting girl.











































































Ah, I'm glad I'm an old pirate, I'm not gonna see any graves when I'm dead, confess, I'm gonna go back in the sea, stay in the sea.
- Good morning, friends!



















- Good morning, Captain.











"The pirate's life is the most beautiful.




It's bad manners.




















Shave is what you need.

"The pirate's life is the most beautiful.

You know, Captain, I've started to notice that you haven't been having fun lately.







We'd all be happier, let alone healthy.















Flying with one of his little bastards! Mr. Smee!
















































































































































Big lie.










It's so good to see you.































So, dear princess, here's my offer.





You'd better tell me, my dear. As soon as the tide starts, it'll be too late.


And remember, there's no way on the water to the happy Country of Eternal Hunting.
This is your last chance, Tigress Lily!
















You old bastard!



































I'm afraid we lost our dear captain.






You're gonna answer for this, Pan, even if it's the last thing I'm gonna do!




















"Shut up, don't bother." The pirate's life is the most beautiful..."









I didn't want it to go too far, but the coke told me the first assistant told him he heard Peter Pen chased Tink away.










I'm glad you agree, Captain.























Now you're Little Flying Eagle.

























It doesn't matter what was said or written, Hana Manganda."










I'm glad you agree, Cap.

That's why I'm asking you, my dear, to tell Peter I don't want to hurt him.





Smee, the guy took her for the best years, and then left her like an old glove!

Don't judge Peter so hard, my dear.




We're leaving in the morning.









Oh, my God! You're right, Smee. What, my dear?








Go on, my dear.




Thank you, my dear.


The great chief welcomes the little mother.






Boys, we'll be home in the morning.










You need a mother... we all do.














She is the angel's voice that she wishes you good night, kisses you on the forehead, whispers through your sleep.














I think Mom would love to see you, if Peter wouldn't mind. All right, boys, all right.






































A thousand apologies, dear, but you don't know our little joke.
We left Peter a little surprise.

I'm picturing our little friend reading a gentle message right now.



If he could see through the box, he'd see an interesting little device.





































Ladies forward, darling.





















Do you need a splash, Mr. Starkey?











































You're not gonna kill old Hook, are you?





























I'm so glad you changed your mind about Wendy.








They're not ready to grow up yet.

Ready?


- Yeah, I'm ready.


Honey, all in good time.









Mom, he's beautiful, isn't he?




I feel like I saw this ship a long time ago when I was a kid.
George, darling. Dad.


Princess Anne's visit to London is her first stop on a charity trip to European capitals.

After three days of continuous tours and a visit to Backingham Palace, the Princess flew to Amsterdam, where she established the International Charities Foundation and attended the launch of the new ocean liner.








Their highness is Magaraj Hanipura and his wife. I'm so glad you could make it.


His ladyship Eric Massinharma-Bergenhold. It's a pleasure.








It's a pleasure.

















Now, my dear, I'll read the schedule for tomorrow, if you don't mind. So at 8:30, breakfast at the embassy.

They'll show you their latest designs and give you a small car. Thank you.





At 10:55, the blessing of a new orphanage










A white lace dress and a bouquet of little roses will do.





Good evening, charmed, very happy...





My dear, you are not well.

















It's very important that she stay calm at the press conference.
Don't worry, Doctor, I'll be more calm than ever.







It's a sedative, new and completely harmless.









Good night, ma'am.
Good night, Your Highness. Good night, Doctor.























This is my last 5,000, and you, hyenas, you won't get them. Thank you, Irving.



So, how about a new one? Come on, come on.



Thank you very much.



















I'm so happy.


Bad habit.







I'm just very happy.


























Good night.








You don't want this girl. I don't need it either. Police...
Maybe they need it.












I'm sorry, honey, but I don't sleep in a night shirt with roses.














You're so damn cute.












Stay away from poetry, my dear, focus on your pajamas.










I think we should remind you that the princess is the only heir to the throne.









Hey. - Good morning, Joe.





























In particular, everything needs to be perfected, and in general everything is fine.







She believes that the happy future of the world is in the hands of a young generation.


















Here, Mr. Bradley, this message is on the front page of all the Roman newspapers.












































That's the first thing.



I don't understand just one thing, Mr. Bradley, how are you gonna get this fantastic stuff?





I'm willing to argue with you.
























Yes. I need a little money for one case right now.







Dear Dr. Bannkoven.














Good morning.























































I'll just say it's a front page material.

I need a photographer.












You must have an important date, since you're running away without having breakfast.

















I don't know how much I need.














What beautiful hair you have. Do you want a perm? Nope.









































I'd be so happy.

I'd love to, but...





If you come, you'll be the most beautiful girl there.










































So, the first wish, if my memory doesn't change, is a summer cafe.

I wonder what the school's gonna say about your new hair?



























- Yes, thank you very much.








It's so good to see you!







Nice to meet you, Smithy!

















Nice to meet you. But you haven't had any drinks yet.










































She drinks champagne. She needs some fun.












You're not gonna believe this, but this is my first cigarette in my life.
The first one?

Your first cigarette.













Irving, are you ready?







Honey, I have a very important case.











Thank you very much.




Thank you very much.





No, let's go first.










The first one appeared during the war, and there was an air raid.



Later he came back here and hung his first sign.


What a beautiful story.























Ah... thank you very much.















Are you old friends?



Mario Delani. It's a pleasure to meet you.












































































Your Royal Highness, you've been gone 24 hours. It's too long.










































































Her first cigarette.





















































It's a pleasure to meet you.



It's a pleasure. Maurice Montabre." Le Figaro.

It's a pleasure. Jacques Ferrier." Isi Pari."





It's a pleasure.






















































- Your wealth isn't great.



































And richer than you are, there are guests of your name in the New City.








And I was born in the New Grad, and my name is Sadko the Gossler.













































I'm a big man myself!





























Good, you'll be the first friend.















































The Prince of the New Land to hold the Old Al with honor?





















Well, shopkeepers, let's fight for a buck.




It's not gonna cost us a lot of money.
















































It's not a big deal.



































Go with the golf course, my dear merchant, and in our skin.





Get some arrows, sharp swords, put on new balls.













































































- And in the morning, he's gonna get divorced.
We don't have to remember the old ones.




We need our goods, take them.

















One more step, and this step will be your last.




































Where are you, sweetheart, okay?




















































































































































Serve, befriends, last service :







Find my sweetheart's friend.


Gold is worth more than iron on the ground.
Ah, no, the bullat is more expensive than iron.
















































We need to go to the ground and get new ones.































































Three hundred lands have passed, the bottom of the sea has gone, and nothing is better than the land of its home!




No, darling, that tan doesn't go away.
























































































It won't be as bad as I thought it would be.






















It's none of my business, but you chose a bad place for a new life.






Honey, uneducated, half Indian.












Big, brand-new.









































- It needs a visa.

Real? The real one, too. Everything needs money and a lot of money.
It takes a good job and it doesn't.

























Look, I need the money.













































Mario, look, I made myself a new dress.
Look how beautiful she is, exactly.


Beautiful, but if you go outside, you're gonna ruin it.
















Thank you very much, Signor.



















My last ticket, he took me to the train, the train to the ship, and the ship to here.


Beautiful!




























































We need drivers, experienced drivers.

You can make a good living and leave. It's better to die than rot here! We need experienced drivers for dangerous work.























The first person who decides to fool around, I'm gonna put a hood face on it.

















You're too old, Joe. Me too.

Two thousand dollars is good money, even for me. I'm not old at all!
The old ones who get pissed off on the way.


Two thousand dollars. You're gonna take the place of the first guy to get out of the game.

"Dear Mother, I finally got a job.






It's very important. Tomorrow morning, put this letter in the mailbox.





















Mr. O'Brien's first victim.















Who was the last person to see Smerlov?



Don't you think we're doing something stupid?








































- Ready? - Yeah, buddy.














































































Not long enough to be a century old man, enough months to be in the right place at the right time.

Are you sick again?



With new tires, are you kidding me?









No, let's go now. He's not well.
Bad? Him?









We'll go when we're ready.









When they're stuck, they'll be happy. Why?
It's worse now, isn't it?
That's a lot worse! There's nothing before Little Corral...



We do, but this is a bad road.






Twenty more miles after Little Corral.





































I'm telling you, four hours at first speed and twelve minutes if you add gas.












A new car, loaded by only one third, has to go.




















All the worse, let's go slow.







Too bad, it's new.






































We need to let the others know.

















































































I need that money, and I'm gonna make it.













































Beautiful. We're gonna push it back.











































































Don't you get it? I need you.
















































































- Are you okay?


































It means he's gonna be important one day.


























I don't want any trouble, Starrett.


- Is it so important that you decide to tell me about him?





























- No, no, Joey's still too young to let him load it.






- I seem a little annoying lately.































- This is our first real home we've ever had.






Ready for a pie?
Well, if no one's gonna finish the biscuits, then I think they're ready.

























- Good morning, Joey.































You don't need anything, Joey. You know that well.






















Well, I don't think he needs to bargain at the store to hold on to him.











































Okay, I'll tell them. But if we're gonna call a meeting, it's got to be something bigger than a finger in the air.




























New lockerman, huh?

























































































At least seven of us are ready if we have to fight.






































I don't need bodyguards.























You thought I could be ready at the same time as the others?





- Good morning.




















- How's it going, Starrett? I'm glad I came by.








We can have a big party, can't we, Miriam? I already have ideas about that.
Great. That's what it takes. We really should get ready.

- We'll have a big party.








I need some flour, Mr. Grafton, and four pounds of coffee.

















































































































































- Joey, for the last time, go to bed.







Thank you very much.












Good night, Joey.
What's the matter, sweetheart?



- Good night, Ma.
- Good night, Joey.
- Good night, Dad.
- Good night, son.
Good night, Shane!


















- I told you I was staying for the last time.








- You guys ready? - Almost, Dad.
















I saw your gun the first day you arrived.



































That little white stone over there, you see?











- Yeah, I get it, honey.






Weapons are only instruments, Miriam. No worse, no better than anyone else.









- It's not that bad.


- But something needs to be done.

I respect this new law.

































We need Starrett.












Come here, I have something important to say.

























We were ready for you to surrender, you and Ernie.








Goodbye, old end!


Goodbye, old end!

Goodbye, old end!


Goodbye, old end!










































































































- You don't give people much choice. Right, Starrett?
















I don't want any trouble with the law.


It won't take much effort to lure him out.






























































That new man shot him! That new man who works for Ryker did it!

They both had guns, but the new man was fast, terrible fast.
















Miriam, honey, get ready.
Torrey's wife will need you.































Fred, if you don't come to the funeral, I'll have the worst opinion of you.




It's gonna be a beautiful morning.
































They have the right to stay here, grow up and be happy.
It's up to you. You have to be brave and don't give up.









































































































































Don't you see, sweetheart, what a chance this is.










Please, darling, play outside.




Honey, that's because you're everything I need you to do.











You sound like you're glad you're leaving.
Honey, you're the most honest and the best girl that ever existed.















You can't decide whose life is worth more.














- Do I have to deal with you, too?

















For you, Miriam... Joe and little Joe.








































































- We need you, Shane.















Bye, little Joe.














I should've done it like that.
- I mean, put Clara on the first episode.

















They have a lot to do tonight.
They have to rewrite the first scenes by tomorrow morning.






























- Think about it! And all of Rome is willing to bet you're my mistress!














Stay with me. - I need some time alone.





Tell me what's going on this morning.





You're being cut off, and you're so calm?







There's something I have to pay for my success, and I've paid even more for it.




















We need to talk.
Today, we have to do it fast, because we have to decorate the set.













- Exactly. - If there's anything we need to fix, we'll take care of it. - What about the scene we shot?






- It's a first-stage outfit.

- Assunta! - You look so good. They're so beautiful.





This movie is what it is. And I had to agree to do it because, frankly, I need money.




















Beautiful. When he comes in, you stand here by the window.













































I need to go to his office now.















We have to leave immediately, we can't wait."












No, I need to bring the photos to the agent.












- How beautiful she is!













I'm glad you're getting married because movies are great, but...


But I'll be very happy to know you're set up.











































We need to check it out.









































Dear Nardo, I thought you were in Greece.
























































































- I need to talk to you.













If Clara were in this scene and the others you know very well and I only saw this morning, would your wife be?


















- It's not good, it's bad!





You need to hear her sing.











Last time I was in Greece.






































Will be cleaned up, new people, friends.

















I should have asked my husband.




I asked him this morning.


























Sorry, honey, you've become a mistress, so come on.



- Very big.




If so, here's a film ready to be filmed.






















I'll read it tomorrow morning before you wake up. I promise you.



















- Good afternoon. - Hey, honey.

What does he want?







No, no. If we want Clara to play the movie seriously, I'm the first to do that.



- I mean! Big movie!








So it's an old idea.



We need to watch how it's taken.




She needs another story.
She needs a love story.















'Cause you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't.




























At least I'm ready to direct it myself. I could've done it with you.







Even bad movies can be played by famous actors.


You really have to be a maniac to look at Manny in Jeanne D'Ark.
First of all, I've never seen Manny on screen, and then, it's her first big movie.



































I've seen it before, but it's worse when it's seen again.






















I should have stayed in Venice.








We've been working on this beautiful adventure you've got me into for months, not even a moment to think about it.


Even worse, because outsiders can be more honest with each other.

















Honey, why do you have to say stupid and unpleasant things?
You've had a great disappointment, and you think it's a mistake, even our love.
You were happy with me.
























- Darling, I've willingly helped you. And I'd be happy to stay in business if it were business.









You see, I have to be home at lunch.















































Do you still need me?

- He's been very nervous lately.






No, we've already washed him, so even assuming the worst, he's out of danger.













And you don't have to think about that stupid thing he did anymore.


And we shouldn't discuss how he got into them. It's important to get him out of there.


















- Tomorrow morning at 7 o'clock sharp!


























































I needed to see you.























Miss Manny, it's good to see you again!
- The cavalier, how nice of you to come.


































She's the most beautiful!




I know it's Saturday, but the gathering is beautiful!






































































































Says he wants to start a new life.












































I'm calm and then I'm not a kid!



















You have to think about it! You can't just decide right away that we can't live together!






You see, you just have to try to understand each other... and then things will work out.



























It's very important to me.
It's very important.


I need to get back to Rome now.















I needed someone to talk to, not be alone.


This morning I was the happiest woman in the world, and now...



With Nardo, for the first time after a long time, I had the impression that I lived, that I had flesh and blood.









Last time I was home, it was awful.




At hard times, you have to find the strength to jump into work, Clara.









Clara, you're beautiful and you still haven't been able to show your beauty.

























I don't want to make you jealous at all, it's not in my spirit, but, of course, if you're not sent to Paris, you'll be happy to stay here.











Honey, I'm gonna give up yours, too, 'cause I don't like him.


And above all, with a lot of sex.











- Hey. - Dear Beautiful.
- Do you need to talk?

I need to confirm Garafolo's role.

































- Of course, darling. Whatever you say.



- Hello, darling.











What was I willing to give up?







We need to see you again, Clara. And soon.




















- I need to talk to Jannie.




- I came first this time.











- I know you're starting a very important movie.




I'm glad to see you now that we're calmed down.






You've become even prettier.
























I think it was a lot of luck.









































I didn't tell you, but I knew I needed to...






Clara, you're beautiful in certain things.

It only makes it worse.














You need to start now.




- There's no copy left, we have to make a new one.










It's got to be washed!




- Come on, I need you. - I'll be right there.












I need to talk to you about Clara's contract right away.


- Can I be calm? There won't be any complications?











It's a beautiful movie. I'm happy.













Beautiful.
Ready?








































Good morning.























































We're so glad to see you.



It's really good to see you.

She's doing great, thank you.



























































That's how you work in the old place?

The bath's ready.






I'm happy I've lived to this day.



We're old.







When I was little, she seemed so big that I was ashamed of my friends.
















But I hear she's not very happy.

































Good night.



































If they're ready, tell them to come down.
Are you ready? Yeah, I'm on it.




















He's bad.




















He needs to see a patient.








Bad boys!




































Beautiful.













There's no reason to buy them such expensive cakes.
















It's too bad they've been upstairs all day.















The ones that are old.







I need your help.

















































































































It's not that expensive.






That's a great idea.














We have to get up early in the morning and take a walk on the beach.




The sea is so quiet.





















She smoked in bed this morning after he got up.
































Very good. There's beautiful baths.

Beautiful modern hotel.






They also serve big eggs.




































Look at Tokyo's bike.





You sent me postcards for every New Year's Eve.





It was a beautiful place.













Do you remember our old chief of police?





His son is an important person in the publishing industry.
Think about it! I'm glad to hear it.





Drink to the good old days.


























If I had an extra bedroom, we could drink until morning.

Anyway, I'm very happy to see you.























I think you're the happiest of all.





































But I can't wait to hear from them anymore.








I think I should be happy.




















I'm really glad you came.
I'm so happy.






























I'm quite happy.

I'm happy.

You can be happy while you're young.


You're so cute.
Well, good night.
Good night.










Good night.
























































Thank you very much, darling.
You need your own money, and you make these gifts.















In the morning, the train will be in Nagoya or Gifu.
















Well, we've seen you all, you don't have to come, even if anything happens to any of us.








They didn't think to go to Osaka, but the mother suddenly got sick.









She felt better this morning.




It's old.









We can spend the night here. It'll be easier on the train in the morning.



And the big grandkids.










We'll be happy because they're as good as anyone else.

We should be happy.





Mom got sick on the train, and they came home on the tenth.


















He says they're stuck in Osaka because Mom got sick.


























Very bad?

So we have to go.


Anyway, she had a bad feeling.

















That's very nice of you.























Too bad she's still in a coma.























Still, I'm glad she came to Tokyo.


















This morning at 3:15.







It was such a beautiful dawn.





I was a bad son.























What I say may seem heartless, but I'd rather he died first.













She'd be happy to know that Coichi was looking after her.








It's like a bad dream.










I've got a report to make.




















I'm so glad you stayed until today.










































She said it was the happiest time in Tokyo.








No, I have a beautiful life.









I'll be happy if you forget him.

















I'm sure she'd be happy if you wore them.


Believe me, I want you to be happy.



















Nice record, isn't it?






























He was a nice guy, he was my friend.


































I needed you, and when I got you, I got a lot less worried.


I saw a guy who's cute, kind and strong.











First, about 40 years, 175 pounds, dark hair, brown eyes.











Look, you're making a big mistake.
New York, ready to go.






I know some people think it's a small thing, but for us, it's a lot of money.






Every time a new car works with trusting people.


They don't want to cause too much commotion, so they're robbing diners in small towns on Route 99.






















































































If I was on the run and I needed shelter, I'd get in touch with this guy.

























































I need help.



























































































That's bad, Steve.






No need, Mr. O'Keefe.






















































































All right, big shot, stretch your hands out.



- You're an important witness.
































I didn't touch you because I didn't need you.
Now we do.

- I don't need you here.

Look, I need you outside.



If you went to San Diego and gave it to me in the right place...





Just a little trip, we'll pay for all the expenses.


You're an ex-con with a new charge, and I can hang you on the basis of these charges.

































Aren't you glad to see us?
Of course, I'm glad.
I'm so glad I can't talk.




Old friends at his alma mater.


Nice house, pretty wife and work.


































One big, happy family.


















They accept the love of a dog, and then when it gets old and sick, they say, "Stop it."









And then a big mistake, the girl died.


It's a lovely solitude.

















































Honey, you've got a good job.


I think Steve told you all about his old friends and their jokes.







































- I need to talk to you.



























Good night.


You need a lot of milk.
































Where have you been the last seven years, Doc?

















There's no watchman there from 12:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.















































Okay, take what she needs and hurry up.

















































It's good to see you, Steve.




Besides, he's got a nice wife.
































We've made it. We need him.



















It's a very large area to check out.

































She's a sweet, clean kid, Steve.







Not far from the airport where you work, there's an old, abandoned warehouse.





With a full tank, charter, always ready to fly.


If we don't get this point, it's not gonna be good for you and your missus.



- Are you two all set?
- Yeah, we're all set.











I don't want to hurt you because I need you, and she doesn't represent value.












You have a nice girl, Steve.


































And it's beautiful.

We don't need a fine right now.


























































































If you want to know a good guy or a bad guy, you press him.
































You're in trouble, you need help, call me.


















































It's almost new.











































Honey, don't screw yourself up.


































This is such a nice house.






Isn't it beautiful?








The most beautiful places from here to Colorado.



























It's okay, honey.




Yeah, and so big.








It's all so new.






















Thank you very much.







That's probably the first deposit.

























We're gonna need something more help.

So... $400 for the old car.













So, we had a new car, a new trailer... and a $7,646 mortgage.













It's worth $170 more plus tax, but it's worth it.





It was interesting who left first:




It's all set.








It's important to remember to slow down the trailer first, or you're gonna make it.






































































Don't be afraid, darling.






































Honey, I told you I was in the hallway.





































































































It'll all be ready when you're out of the shower.
Our first dinner is in our own house.






"Mrs. Nicholas Collini." Honey.



Nicky, darling, thank you very much.




Your seat is ready.

















































What lovely curtains.



















No, you don't. Thank you very much.





















Look, darling.

Next year we'll sell our Zephyr and buy a new one.





















It'll be like a pickle in the morning.








Hello, darling. Good morning.


































We'll take the car to town and bring the tow truck in the morning.


































It's okay, honey, I'll make you something.


























At the opening of the new highway, remember?









That's so sweet.











What are you doing, honey?







That's so sweet. Here you go.
































Hi, honey.
Honey!








It's so good to see you all!



















Good to see you.























To be honest, the first mile of 150... the first mile of 70 was a little nervous, and then I got used to it.































































I need total silence.





























Good morning.





















They're gonna put you in the freezer.












Nikki, it's not that bad here, is it?












Isn't it beautiful?
Our first stone.
















It's beautiful.













Stop it, darling.








Yeah, I know, honey.












I'm serious. You're shitting me, darling.









Nicky, did you see what a nice dress?
















Someone's got to keep an eye on the road.




















Look, what kind of park were you talking about this morning?





































What, honey?

In the meantime, you're taking us somewhere. And when you set up the trailer and wash up, everything will be ready.










We need a good parmesan.


















Nothing, darling.











































































































Every stone reminds me of a beautiful place.

















































































Well, there's an actor who married a beautiful brunette who loved squirrels.


































You know, they say most marriages break up in the first three years.
I thought it was nice to start a new life with such a modern thing.



And we fought all the time. If it wasn't for the cold, we'd be gone in the first winter.







































No, honey, don't say that.


No, darling, it's not for nothing...










- Are you ready, sister?
- Yeah, I'm ready, honey.


















The next morning, the town's gonna go to the kingdom, telling the people of the Prince's will.











GENZEL AND GRETEL A long time ago, Hansel and Gretel lived in a small house on the edge of the forest with their parents.









Suddenly they saw... a beautiful little house.




- Hrum, hush, little mice who eats from the walls of the carpet?
- Oh, these are cute kids!






































The meeting was a very happy parent warmly received the goose, the squirrel and the deer, and they started living together in their little house.
One day a beautiful flower blossomed in the woods
And this flower gave birth to a lovely little girl who was so small that they called her "Dummy."

- Oh, what a lovely wife for my son!















Poor little Inch Girl was cold, hungry and lonely.






Poor little Inch Girl was afraid of the mole.




He's an important person.

On the day of the wedding, the Inch Girl was allowed out for the last time...














And the most beautiful of them invited her to dance with him.





The first princess dropped the ball.


And she, happy, ran to play with him.























The princess was very surprised when the Frog turned into a beautiful Prince!




















Mrs. Ant is cozy in her little house.









































The girls weren't going to the woods anymore. They were running out of time. They were comfortable at the dormitory in their little cabin.






















































Once upon a time, there was a Porter who used to make fun of himself all day long in a small little town in a tiny floozy.







However, after going through everything, the Porter bought the smallest can of jam. It turned out that the dealer was sniffing up his stairs for no reason.





She was so proud of her feat that she went to look for happiness in the big city.












Martin was a woodsman and lived in the woods in a small shack.
He wasn't very happy because his wife Margaret was always groaning and yelling at him.
Much happier Martin felt in the woods among the proteins and the birds.
















































- Martin, use your last wish!






- But since your last wish was for Margaret, I'll give you three of my wishes.













And brought him to an old well.

































- New lights for old ones!
New lights for old ones!

- New lights for old ones!
New lights for old ones!

New lights for old ones?
Dinarzarda remembered the old lamp Aladdin took away.




























































They went down to the ruins of the old palace.


- What are you crying about, little Owl?












The owl has also become a beautiful virgin.






Once, there was a royal chateau in one beautiful castle, and they were very happy because just recently they had a little princess. She was so beautiful that they decided to call her Beautiful.





They were all happy to hear about the princess's birth and made sure they were coming to the party.

virtue, beauty, wealth of voice for singing, lips for kissing and legs for dancing all were kind and necessary for a little princess.
But the little black messenger flew to the 13th Fairy, who didn't get an invitation and told her everything.
























An old shepherd told him a legend about a palace that sleeps a sorcerer's dream.
And the beautiful young princess who's been sleeping for a hundred years.




Everyone in the court was struck by the strange story that happened to them and by the beautiful young prince who woke up the Beauty from the dream.




































Besides, the rainy season was approaching and I needed a storage space.










It's getting worse.








My boy, you shouldn't have left home.
At home, with me and your dear mother, you had all the best.





















My first thought was water.








This is the last of it, Rex.


A grain we call corn in England and wheat in the new world.




I found turtles that could give me plenty of delicious meat and a lot of shells.

I also discovered another sea creature, an octopus, which they say needs courage.

















Because the crops were made during the drought, the first half of the crop was completely destroyed.

When I started to feel like the best times had come and I could finally beat the sun and the rain, a new disaster hit me.

















My old friends!



And that's where our little keg ended up.
















And he took on new ones.






































My little friends.

I don't know what you're called, but you're my little friends, right?
Just sit in your little houses and I'll feed you.






























I've moved around the island with great caution now, not knowing where they're coming from.



























No, people don't eat, it's bad.


If the cannibals didn't show up till morning, he could have eaten me himself.
































Friday is happy to see its people.



And return to his land. Or worse, bring them here to rob my precious possessions.
































































Beautiful.

These were the happiest years of life on the island.





















Big enough to get us to Spain, which, as Friday said, lies north of here.
It took weeks to choose the right tree. This may be my last chance to see my home England before I die.









































One: As long as you're on this island, you're subject to my orders.













































































































- Here. He's ready.
















- I don't want them.









They're happy there...








Don't be angry, madam, we'll be ready now.


















































You have a special business, and you need a representative guy who's good with clients.



Keep him in the driver's seat, he can't do any more.

There's a man you need.


























Last one.
Last one, last one!
I know your last! Then we'll have a drink with Pierrot. And then there'll be girls.











Good for you.







































Look at those old farts.

































So, Monsieur Raymond, the new game?








We don't need any jerseys, we have a direct number.












































More customers like that...






































- It's okay there, too.



















But now it's important what game Angelo's playing.















It was my last case.








That... and that! You think it's beautiful, don't you?











All right, we've got to wrap this up, we've got to get some sleep.













You're still so beautiful.






Thank you, dear friend, thank you.
























Attack will have to melt them down to make them small.














It'll take at least ten days.



- I don't drink in the morning.




When everything's ready or difficult, call me on 5-5-9-0.
This is my new apartment.





















































I need a man. It's not a fun walk, but I promise you won't regret it.





























































































I need your help.




Yeah, it started last night. And this morning, they kidnapped Reaton.
















































I just need your prey. Within an hour, no later.





















I can't stand being disturbed at night when my first sleep is interrupted.


I need my product now.




















































































He needs peace.











- Six in the morning.














































It's ready for me.






















All the worse, it's too late.








But we need people.
















































The whole team escaped this morning.
We really need to get to Saigon.








At least our dear guest will still be in San Francisco.


















Maybe if it's big enough.











































































During the first month, we walked in circles, crossing our own course over and over again.






















As soon as I get back, I'll leave with the first whaling ship.





The biggest fish is always off the hook.












But one night, the flame of her love faded.













































Black gunpowder or worse.





















































































































































You wrote a beautiful book, but it lacks scale.















Ready to dive.




























I don't need your gratitude.

























Yeah, my cock's a big seafood expert.































In a sense, however, I feel like a convicted man who received his last meal before being executed. Beautiful dinner, I must say.





I like that you didn't think life was too expensive for the love of your companions.

At this point, I don't need you to understand.












































































And don't make big eyes.






I know I can win the captain's trust, but I need time and your help.











He just can't figure out how important this is.





I just think that Ned's life is more important than scientific discoveries, that's all.







Although he seemed calmed down, I knew he needed eyes and eyes.























































Beautiful.








































When it didn't work, they tortured my wife and little son to death.



















More importantly, it could be useful to this world.



















I was even glad you did it.


We need each other.




































































You don't have to slow down.







I need samples.










All I need is bottles.










































We're off the coast of New Guinea.


The last landing turned out to be a foreplay for murder.

























I'm happy to be on board, sir.
Beautiful.



























































































































































































I'm very glad you've been released, Ned.


And the professor is very happy.

We don't want his thanks!
We don't want his thanks!






Good night, Esme.













You're trying to seem worse than you are.





Yeah, you're overreacting, and one good deed is more important to you than global evil.





















That knowledge cost me the lives of the most precious people, that power is still in my hands.







Beautiful.






We have to destroy everything before they reach the lagoon.






















































This is the last time we dive on Nautilus.








That's why I brought Nautilus here to his last safe house.











You've dreamed of a beautiful future yourself.



When the world is ready for a new, better life, all this will come back. In due course.

























When the world is ready for a new, better life, all this will come back. In due course.




















Right in front of your bloodthirsty brothers to start a new war in your honor.













































The last military chief of the West. We tame him.

- I'm the last one to give up.






































A new miracle of the century is before you.





































































































































It's the seeds of a new life.



Even the kids are old.























A bag of grain is a bad price for a woman.



I need wisdom.











































































































Who? Settlers from the mountains? I need accurate information.
"A great herd of cattle has disappeared."






































It's worse than death.



















You've been betrayed by a lot of people, but now you're worse than they are.

























A very small rabbit.

It's up to me whether he's big or small.



















I don't need you.

















Bad, Hondo.

















Would you be happy to hear about another Masai?
About the little one.






You have to think about the little one.
















I'm thinking of little Masai.
Old Masai is over.



I'm the last real apache other than the one that's gonna be born.














You're just an old abandoned ant to him now, that's all.






























It reminds us of a new life, of the words of Cherokee.























I stole them this morning.






Isn't it beautiful?














Do you need supplies?
I need bacon, a bag of beans, flour and soda.






















Show me an Indian who needs a bag of grain.






































- She needs a fight.




They won't touch little Masai.
















- I hope your mother gets better, darling.
- Thanks, honey.









But you know that's not true, honey.




- Shouldn't we get on the plane?






















- You're the first person I know tonight.



Oh, honey!
I'm so glad you came.

Your husband is no doubt... the worst dramatic critic in New York.











How nice of you to agree with me.










Well, in that case, I'd be happy to save your life.





Everyone here is so important.







- You're important too.













Mozart wrote his first opera in 12.





My last story is--













- Good night, Miss Marin.

























- Honey, it's great to see you without your wife.
















Good night.


Good night, Miss Marin.


It's a big problem living in the same house as Lottie.
































I didn't expect to see... such a beautiful young woman.


You were still with the braids the last time I saw you.














































They're my old friends.


I spilled drinks on the first day of work.






























Her next stop, two weeks later... was 24th Street... at the invitation of a new friend.






































First alley around the corner.





























She's willing to do anything to rob the poor man.
It could break her little heart. She's got to be on her level.












It's not too important.




























































Can you hold on a second, darling?





- Sorry, honey.




I sold my first story today.
That's beautiful, Nancy.






Did you get my little sketch?



He's uh-- he's really cute.

I was gonna, Nancy, just been busy lately...
















































































- All except for the last two rows.
- Good night, Miss Ordway.
- Good night.





- Good morning, Miss.
- Good morning.




























She's been working in his apartment for the last few weeks.




- Hey, honey.
- Hello, darling.





























What's the matter, sweetheart?












































- What? - Can't you assume there was... more to you than a random relationship?











That's the first one I got.































We're not staying, honey.



Not knowing what really happened... I imagine the first thought that came to you... when you found out what happened.


Despite the child's face... the girl was a horror-- typical little sweet cheater... clinging to men.










- Don't worry so much, honey.


Come on, honey.





It was an old painting at Star Pixer's on 42nd Street.









- Good night, Mrs. Denver.
- Good night.

- Come here, darling.



I'm first.







It's bad, of course, for newspapers to make such a big noise.








































How was she dressed that morning?






Thank you very much.



Yeah, well, she took a little nap this morning.
















I want to hear her story first.













Thank you very much.





























- Service first.









- I want to know why your sister lied about me this morning.
































I'm gonna ask you one last time.



After all, the girl was alone in the apartment... and she just decided... to get some sleep instead of work that morning.





But after what you heard this morning... I don't see the need to protect him any further.







We stopped by to see if there was anything new.

- Thank you, darling.
Honey.













Actually, and it would be great if you didn't bother coming here any more.
























"My dear Iris.







- Let me see it first, if you don't mind.
"You must understand that he has no great guilt... he has lost control of his emotions... as it was with you when you lost your head because of Martin."













But it's true, honey.

































But you have a contract, darling.









































































- Nice to meet you, Mr. Marin.







Nothing new.

I have some very bad news for you, Peter.





























































So you can understand for yourself what I need.























































If you tell the police about this... I'll get you, even if it's the last thing I do.












- You need to see Anne for that.





















Much worse.


















Big, rich family from Boston... social status, good single boy.



































Thank you very much, Anne.






















































































Oh, honey.

It's okay, honey.














All I need to prove is that I couldn't kill her.














Just say the word, sweetheart.






Right here, darling.




Of course, darling.


Iris, honey, where are you?
Aren't you busy with something important?








































It was really, so beautiful, and then... all of a sudden, I realized that the girl was literally obsessed with me.





























- Listen, darling--
- Please, darling.



Maybe this is the last time we have to hide and be afraid of everything.


- You know that, honey, but I told you why it's impossible.
This needs to be overcome, Brian, because we're gonna have a baby.

I would give half my life to make you as happy as I am.
Nenny, darling... if there was a good opportunity for us...












- Sure, honey, but what you're saying is pure madness.












- Listen, darling--










It was a waste, your wife's a bad actress, she can't fool me.


There was nothing I could do, darling.







Sergeant Welch, who has a somewhat old-fashioned approach to criminal investigations... was smart enough to leave this little microphone here in the afternoon. And the first part we heard in the office downstairs.






























- Listen, honey--



Oh, honey. I'm so glad.
You have no idea how happy I am.




We'll have more money than we need.




They're rich, famous and important. We don't look like them.
They have other things to make up for the little troubles.











Please, darling.








I'm sorry, honey.










Let's consider this case as if we were in front of a grand jury.
































I was willing to keep quiet for Mr. Denver - for anyone who was as close to me as Mrs. and Mr. Denver.













And you're willing to swear it, Miss Marin?




















After lunch on Tuesday, when he came to Star Theatre.
































Please, darling.




What do you want here?































I found this in your kitchen this morning, Miss Marin.























And when this poor, brave, touching, little housewife... will deal with this trial...
































































For such a fine commodity, I ask for a very low price.












































We came here from New York, and the first night we got lost.































You have a great job, and you're engaged to a beautiful girl.
You're lost in a beautiful forest.





































It's bad luck to see the groom before the wedding.

Do you think he's happy to marry me... or do you think he's starting to regret it?





Were you happy?





Buy whatever it takes for a wedding dinner.















I'm gonna be an old maid.



And how happy I am.













































Good morning, Fiona!

- Good morning, Miss Fiona.
- Good morning, Mr. Beaton.






I'm glad it's a beautiful guy like Charlie.







In the west, the old road to the church.
















This guy's gonna be a big loser when he grows up.










- Good morning.
- Good morning.





















Thank you very much.







































I don't want their money.










It's beautiful.












































And she's all I need.



































































I've seen a lot of happy couples break up in a marriage.
Oh, you're a brave and handsome guy, Mr Douglas.






It would be so nice if you'd stayed.





- Good morning, darling.












This way, you old boat.











- That's very nice of you.

Besides, Charlie's a great guy.

It's wonderfully reminiscent of those days... seeing someone who's so excited about the wedding.











- Good morning, Fiona.









What's wrong with that?







- That's nice.
- She's a very nice lady.






Bread will be ready in an hour.































Maybe there'll be other days, better and more beautiful.
Maybe there'll be other springs, richer and more beautiful.










Good to see you.

























Now sit down and write under the name of my dear dead wife.








I'm very happy.

















It's one of the most beautiful bedtime stories I've ever heard.

Thank you very much.









You need someone to take care of you.




































































What made the world beautiful It was


















































If they're happy not to notice that it's been 200 years, let them.

You don't have to explain anything to me. I don't care.

































It used to be New Amsterdam.
























You have to believe in miracles, and faith seems to have died, like--













It doesn't matter that they weren't real magicians... because neither are you, and I know there's no such thing... but their influence was certainly the real thing.
At the time, we had an old priest in Brigadoon... named Mr. Forsythe... and he was a good man.







And early on Wednesday morning, right after midnight... he climbed the hill outside Brigadoon... and prayed to God.



People will lead their normal lifestyle... but every time they wake up in the morning... it'll be 100 years later.














































Mr. Lundy, are you all happy to live here in a small town?



To me, it's like the night is carrying me... to the farthest cloud... and there I'm floating until morning.





















Mr. Forsythe would like to be here now, I'm sure... but as long as you're both good and honest spouses... you won't be lost, but you will live with God's blessing... and Mr. Forsythe wouldn't want more.






Robert, take the men and run to the old church.
























































We'll wait till morning.







He'll be fine in the morning.




Yes, darling.













Tommy, honey.








I need to tell you something very important.


Oh, that's nice.







Eating cows in the morning, growing vegetables... sticking ropes, rubbing oil.


















But Harry was a resident of a small town that wasn't... and he probably never lived.











And you're willing to leave your family, your friends, your life for this?

















No, I'm glad.


















- But she needs money.


Honey, I'm sorry I'm late, but I've had a terrible day.
My new analyst is divine.
He's got an amazing new theory.








The great little car.


But, honey, why don't you try to take my side?










He's got this girl he wants to go out with... and he needs a free man so they don't think she's with him.
Yes, darling.


Honey, I can't talk anymore.

















Your table will be ready by now.






Albright, how about we meet this morning?



























Because, old boat, I love another... and I can't forget it.
And the trouble is, since I can't be with her, I don't need anyone.





















- Table's ready, Mr. Albright.





- Your bill, sir, is very large.





Honey, I'd like you to be with me this weekend.

I've seen beautiful places.

It's a colonial style, and it's on top of a beautiful hill.

































And I'm happy.

















You're beautiful, darling.










As long as I'm not old enough for social security... I have my own expense account.



























There's a big difference between us, Jeff.



























































We're now printing a new calendar for the emperor's house so we had to postpone our other orders.
It's a big order, and we're responsible for the production of all copies of the calendar in the western region.


















He needs a gold parchi sample.

















- Good morning, madam.









Help me. I have money to pay only a third of the money, but I need more.


























Thank you very much.

















These nobles will join us for lunch when they need money.



























Welcome home, darling.















- How do you know I need this incisor?


























































All set?
















How much money does he need?












- Thank you very much.






I'm very happy.


You're the only one I can trust with an important job.














I'm gonna need five cans of gold right now. I'll have them back in 20 days. Don't tell anyone, okay?
Why do you need them?
Look, you and I often do this much more than that.

















No matter how much, it's my money!


I just needed the money.



You need money to pay the geisha's debt?































You know how the owner cuts our wages and spends money on his little weaknesses these days.







































































































































































This is the first time I've stayed in a hotel.























Lie down. You need to rest.





Good night.
Good night.




If he doesn't like it, he'll grow old before the time.










You have a calendar delivery at any convenient time and we're very happy to share your success.




I came by to congratulate you on the new calendar.
Thank you very much.



It's a great honor, gentlemen.




I haven't seen her cute face in so long.


























- I need the money now.











For the master... reputation is the most important thing.




Are you suggesting I become the first printer and take your place?


















































































We have to go to Lake Biwa.
































We have to run.
Mrs. Osan, are you ready?








































































But after a long time, I'm happy.
Really, I'm happy.



























I'm a samurai and I don't need my niece's money.































































What a beautiful dream.
I'd be happy to live here with you for the rest of my life.



























Thank you very much.



Don't say another word.














But I've learned an important lesson: to marry a faithful woman.








- You don't understand my feelings! - That's why I'm happy!







































Listen to me, Mohei, you're in great danger when you're here.



At least you saw her again... you're happy now.






































I understand your condescendingness to her, your wife is very beautiful.





I've been running around a little bit with all this. Forgive me for bringing you bad news.
















Mohei is the same as always, very calm.








This morning after you called, all I told him was that you were writing detective novels and that one day we'd already met.




Honey, I already understand, and I'm not gonna love you any less.















Since then, Tony has been a wonderful husband.























I had to withdraw 50 pounds in five-pound bills from my account and change them into old one-pound bills.







































Sorry, honey.






Nice, very nice, Tony.





- Honey, did you remember to book a table?
































Honey, Mark's gonna be at the party tomorrow. I'm glad.

- That's a great idea.



Bye, honey.











- I need Captain Lesgate.











You think I was happy buying it with that kind of money?

















































But we need something better.























I remember you used to smoke a very expensive cigar in college.




There you are. You have the biggest cigar.









I left them in a box in my room. The box was gone by morning.

















Your apartment is beautiful.







































But now the big tennis has rejected me, and the wife seems to be, too.














































Sweetheart, everyone knew you took the money.











I needed an alibi. Strong alibi.









Thank you, thank you very much.






























I lost you, but then I found you on dog runners and followed you to your new home in Belseys Park.
Then from Adams, you became Wilson, and you left Belseace Park, and you owe a four-month fee to the mistress and an even bigger sum to a Miss Wallace.






















































Let's say a small cafe in Pimliko.
















































I need to think this through.






































- Yes. Now it's the most important thing.















































I'm sorry, I mean, I'm glad.



One second, darling, I think someone's here.

Sorry, honey, false alarm.










I'm glad we're not going to Marin's.



Run, darling.



















































- But I need him.















- Something old.












Beautiful.





Tony, honey.








- You need scissors?



How much do you need?







Well, finally. So, how much do you need?







Nothing, darling.







- Good night.




All of a sudden, he's got a big case.


Bye, darling.




























It's me, darling.



































It's okay, honey.



















I wonder what he wanted.





















Cherrington Gardens sixty-one "A." The apartment on the first floor.

















I'll tell you everything I need to know.




Sorry, honey. We'll talk about it later.












When you need it, it always ends.












Good morning, ma'am.
- Good morning.







Good morning.
Good morning, sir. I'm Chief Inspector Hubbard, Chief of Investigation at our precinct.

























































Here's an old picture.















- I'm afraid so, darling.














































































It's a brand-new rug. The fibers were stuck to his shoes.





































































I had to, darling.
The chief flew to Brussels this morning.
I wanted to remind him of an important case.
















































It doesn't matter what you told me before.



































































Goodbye. It's okay, honey.






















































































And we need motive, we need motive.
Let's take the old one as the world, motive.
















































In such cases, the police don't lose sight of someone who spends a lot of money.

So I was wondering if you've sold anything lately for cash?











































































Inspector, while you're here, Wendice has something important to tell you.








































It's about life and death, which may be more important.
Is it important for me to know where Mr. Wendice got the money?



Look, Inspector, the last check he wrote on the 26th, the day before his wife's accident.






Could've saved a lot of money.











The next morning, she showed me this money-- a suitcase of one pound bills and said, "If anything happens to me, the money shouldn't be found."

When I needed the money, I took it and left it in another storage cell.
















































What do you want? - Why are you here?
















































He was supposed to visit me this morning, but I was told he couldn't.


















The first lead came by accident.
We've learned that your husband spends a lot of money in one pound bills everywhere.







This morning, while your husband was away from home, I came to see the bank statements.

















































- What, honey?



































































Explain it to the court in the morning.




























































































We don't share good people and bad people.

















He's really beautiful.









Oh, you have a new driver.









































































We've got the woods ready.
















Thank you very much.




Thank you very much.
















- Thank you very much.










- Waiting for bad weather?


- Victoria Station's bulletin board says it's calm.





Meanwhile, the sky was darkened by the clouds and by the wind, and it rained a great rain.
















- Nice car, Jaguar.






























































Albert was a great guy.



















But if we were to take the last two seats...











































Beautiful.









From the little cafe.




























































You need me for a personal crusade.




Now let's see my new toy.




You should realize, Father, to your regret, how the difference is between a good amateur and a good professional.













One small and fat, the other tall.












I am happy to inform you that in this respect your knowledge is greater than mine.



Is it that bad?





























































First of all, the criminal, but first of all, the man himself.








Except for the last step to the crime.






I'm so glad you agree.


Here's a really beautiful thing.



































- Just for the last 20 years.


















































































Tiffany can offer me something bigger and cheaper.





























Lot No. 3, an extremely beautiful white-blue vase of the Min dynasty.









In my memory, the first moment of our meeting,

















I'm happy to do my best, Chief.

























Oh, that's sweet.



























- I was so enjoying our last conversation.







Your face was old and your hand wasn't.



- Do you need another time?


















I love beautiful things.






Because Lady Warren is a very beautiful woman.




I don't need it.






It doesn't matter because we won't see each other again.






























My old friend Viconte de Verdigrie is the only one alive who can help you.






That's sweet.





The last time I was asked about him was between two wars.

























Oh, thank you very much.
If I can find new glasses and come back within the hour...































Go to Clooney and get on a small train.
I have to... go to Florance.











I need to get into Florance's castle.















































I'll take you there in the morning.
He may not be there in the morning.



















I... I need to...













That's a strange word for the world's most beautiful private collection.

You're the first person to have the honor to see her.


























Why else would you put yourself in a beautiful but sterile dungeon?




























You don't understand that I can't until you're ready to return everything else?













I spoke to the Home Secretary this morning.










Yeah, it's beautiful.











Good to see you, Jeff.









- They'll do it next time. Get the convoy off track one.

Get the convoy off track one.
Send it to the wash. It's good to see you again.







The old man's not so bad.
















Carl's been so important since you left.

- That's great.





















































The Japanese are beautiful?


By the time I got here, the officials had already picked me up the most beautiful ones. Poor Jeff.

After the ocean, all I thought about was getting back into the power train and being the happiest man in the world.





























Don't worry, darling.







Don't worry, darling. I worked before the wedding.












I need you to help someone powerful.











What's wrong with helping your husband? Come on, baby, what do you say?












I can explain everything that needs to be explained.












Every day it's harder for me to be beautiful.


It's better to look beautiful than smart.











The only bad thing is, I'm a lot younger than him.



























Honey, next time, don't fight with him. - Yeah, obviously.
























He's so busy, but he can walk you for three hours in a row. What was so important about?















Was he happy to help me?


















Honey? - Carl.








- Yeah, we're almost empty. First way.
















Thank you very much.













































Honourable Lord, breakfast is ready.
Me too. It's beautiful!








- Nothing important. You know Buckley's wife?


- She's very beautiful. Do you know her?
Carl introduced it to me this morning.





- Even if it's bad, she hides it well.





































































- We're carrying a big...


























But not the first one in!














Owens was an old friend of my family.


























































He seemed big, solid and worthy.









But I thought it wasn't that important. No woman is happy.












In the army, I knew a lot of people who were happy away from home.













I have so much to tell you. I'll look for a place.













My father took me with him once when I was a little girl. It was a steam train.










- I don't know yet. She's very beautiful.


















You've been out a lot for the past couple of weeks.

It was just a question. It's a small town, Jeff.






































































His job was the only thing he cared about.










Did something bad happen?





- Yes. - Calm, measured life...


That you need a girl.
- I said you needed a good girl. - How do good girls distinguish from bad girls?






























































- Yes. And you need a different kind of man.






A little push and I'll take Carl. You never loved me.








I'll tell you how bad I am.

He had a big house in a fabulous neighborhood.





















































I wanted to live in his beautiful home.































- Absolutely, darling!







If you think she doesn't know any worse than that, Mom...







- Yes, Sheila, my dear!





























Remember my word, you have a bright future ahead of you. It's gonna be a great time.






The stakes are too high now.





Of course you're right, darling.


Sheila, honey, go sit in the rice shop.
- I need to talk to Eric in private.




Eric, honey, no offense to what I'm about to tell you, but I wouldn't drink that much tonight if I were you.

Well, of course, honey, I'm not saying anything, but it's very easy to get carried away at a celebration like this.











I have the impression that your mother, Lady Croft, is not too happy with my daughter that you can find a better party.





























I need some information, if you don't mind.












Like most modern-day girls who have only stupidity in mind, she came up with a new name.























We just opened a new workshop.

She's a smart, very nice girl.












































































































Honey?
- I'm afraid it's not today. And before that, Miss Birling, she was very nice.

It's more important to know what happened to her after she left Mr. Berling's factory.




























I was just there this morning, and I got you something, by the way.
She liked working there. She liked being around beautiful clothes.
I think she thought it was a chance to start with a new leaf.















It was the last good job of her life.







I needed a new hat, and we went to Milwoods.



- No, honey.





The one you tried on last time looked great.

You need a hat under your cute baby face.



































She was very nice and... she looked very self-sufficient.

























Gerald, honey, you turned yourself in, you should have told him that name.



- But, honey...























Of course, now that we know the reason for your visit, we'll be happy to answer all your questions.








Confident, satisfied with themselves, but only until the Inspector's first question.





You look tired, darling.









If you do build this wall, the inspector will destroy it immediately. And then it's gonna get worse.










I'd love his help.























Well... he's been drinking a lot lately, but...




























Don't you understand how important it is to both of us that I understand?







































- You need to sit down.




























































It's the first time I've eaten in a cab.





Do you need a specific house?









































































I can barely catch the last train.













- It feels great, doesn't it?



































I knew from the beginning that it would end, so I'm calm.
Even when we were happy together, when things were good, I was a little sad, because I knew it was gonna end.



















That's all I need from you.


- No, I need to be alone, if you don't mind.





When you started telling me, I was a lot worse at thinking about you than I am right now.
It's weird, but your honesty deserves more respect, my whole life.



































Gerald supported her, but left her in the first instance.

























Anyway, we don't need him here.
We really need him.





































I know she needed help, but I wasn't there with you, so I don't know the reasons for that request.












'Cause I didn't do anything wrong, and you know it!
But if you didn't do anything wrong, why would you be afraid to talk about it, Mrs. Birling?






I didn't notice any arrogance in her the last time I saw her.





















It's just the first thing I ever thought of.
















Come here, my dear.




In some situations, sweetheart's most prudent decision will be to sit as much as possible.























And if you need help, the girl will go to him.
























































































You know, that's incredibly sweet of you.



It's a big deal.
These little things are the most important thing.

















Good night, princess.

That's how I'm gonna get all the change I need.
















Good night, Monsieur Restaurant!






I'm a bad boy.





































I'm glad you said that.




















- What else do you want at your age?








- You live at home, everything's ready.





















































And it was the worst.


































I'm willing to spare thousands of...






















































I mean, you could have moved a new inspector here that you wouldn't have known about yet, right?


















































I don't care about the money! What happened to the girl and what we did was more important!
























The girl is dead, and we all put our hand in it, that's what matters.






























































You've just begun to understand something, and here, you're ready to get back on that mess.













- We don't need scandals and rumors.
- Leave it to me, darling.





































































A good shooter in our case is much more important than a four-leaf clover.





Your brother was a wonderful man.

He never even looked at you! But still, he was a wonderful man.





Don't add any more.










Any other witnesses, Marshall? You don't need them.

































I didn't do anything wrong to you. Don't force me.



We don't need you.



We don't need you!




















Too loud a word for such a small revolver...












Unless I kill you first.













Well, I'm always happy with the clients, but I haven't agreed to work here yet.






















































































This place seems calm to me. And friendly.





I like the first sentence better.













You want to risk it for the first time?
Are you the first person to meet me?





































What do you see wrong in me?



















If you're staying, you need someone to help and look after you.





























Maybe I need a shooter.











The important thing is that I got it.








It gives me more pleasure to believe that you're still waiting for me.
















He wasn't very good or very bad.








Five years, that's a long time.












The silver mine didn't give enough money to start in a new place.



















You and Emma could be a beautiful couple.























We don't even have enough silver to put Bart's new teeth in.












Bad dreams.































Look, Vienna, you just had a bad dream.






Let's have a drink at the new hotel bar.


Be happy, Vienna, we'll be happy. It's your wedding.




Someone said... that a man just needed a cup of coffee and a good cigarette.

















Looks like I got a spot on the front row show...








You picked a bad time for business, Vienna.










Listen to me. You haven't done anything wrong so far!









































It's still quiet, but she's gonna convince everyone...




























We don't need you anymore, Emma.







I'll go first!









You haven't revealed anything new to me.


They feel safe because there's a lot of them, they're too big a target.






































































My men aren't ready yet.






























Marshall said he needed "legitimate grounds".










































What were you doing at the bank this morning?











































































For the first time in my life, I feel so important...

































Who do you care about?

























































































































But he's expecting something big. Isn't that right, Mr. Logan?






You must be really happy.



- What's new?









She doesn't need us. She needs Viennese and the guitar player.































Worse than a woman.





You are as beautiful as the flower that adorned the coats of arms of our kings.







There's so much I need to tell you.


My dear Andre, you speak words that you do not understand.




















































- We need to try a fresh start, Catherine...































It's weird that I didn't think about it right away, but... come over to dinner, I'm sure Catherine will be happy...


























Hey, hey! Not bad...


















- It's all set.

















I can't find the little spoons...



















She's coming back tomorrow morning.




















- You need a hat...



For a big tooth wolf.


Little spoon!





























- She started...




One beautiful evening, I took this disgusting thing into these hands and threw it into the fire! Poof!

















- Tell me, is there a seal in the right place?







Remember? If I was paid properly, I wouldn't need an advance.












She's obviously the most beautiful, the most charming.



But following a woman is even more pleasant.


Sometimes at the last moment, I changed my mind and kept walking my way...
No matter where... as usual, looking for adventures...





Then you had to go back to the barracks, quietly and modestly, without ever tripping, so that you wouldn't fall under the hot arm of an Adjutant in a skirt...








































- Hurry up, my dear, if you want to put the furniture in place before nightfall.


























But maybe I wanted something new...


To achieve my goal, I had to use the most sophisticated techniques.
























Thank you for this beautiful evening.











Darling... be careful.





































We need to give him something to eat...



- All I need to save him is my house...




















































That's crazy! I don't know how much we need to buy!












We're gonna have to do the interior...





And in the evenings, when I return home, I will see my dear,




















I'm happy.

I'm gonna have to tell my mom.








Dear Andre!

















"Honey, take care of yourself."

You have to have a low soul to think that I might have done it.



























I should've gotten some sleep.





But this is my first time...







I was willing to do anything.








You're not bored, my dear, are you?


I'm glad I can speak French.


























Eat slowly, or you'll be sick.






























































I have to go.


























I'm at least nice, aren't I?




The first time I thought of leaving her.









I have to go, I don't like fakes.

You need to hurry, it's almost 3:00.





- I'll buy you a new suit.


I have to be there at 2:30.





Better than that.

I'll make you the happiest man in the world.

I settled in a beautiful neighborhood in London, Hampstead.
The first time, I was my own master.




"Cade-Shennonso" is a beautiful name, isn't it?















It doesn't matter...





I should have taken a piece of paper...







































- I'm very glad that my job has been rated...































I've started a lot of translation work...













I'm giving you your first lesson now?



















I take my first lesson.









































Last one.


























I'm starting to ask myself... maybe... need to believe?








- Oh... you... but what do you need?





















- No, my dear Andre.



































My darling!








- No, honey. Your turn to carry...

- But you've been driving him since morning, you're tired.













- Do you need it?





































You talk less, you'll live longer.

Less questions, less answers. 'Cause you're gonna be in trouble.










If you need me, I'm at the church.
If you need it, you're at the church?































The new accountant forged the bill.




















Give him a little more, he's gonna melt.




















































































They're talking, you're the last one to see Joe Doyle.

































































































We're gonna need a list of those here, how many of them are gonna be.







Johnny needs help. Don't even think about it.


I thought there'd be more of us, but...
The Romans were able to attract a small number of people.

One. Working conditions are terrible.
































You can talk publicly about what's good and what's bad.








- They need help.
























































































I just wanted to say that you've grown up beautiful.





















All right, here we go. Here's the bus ticket to St. Anne's.
































I was the first of Golden Warriors.

































































To the first and, hopefully, not the last meeting.




Give it to me first, or they'll hit you.













What does this Barry want?











































































































I want to protect you, what else do you need?
























































It's good to be a little guy in a big jacket.




























Every morning, when the boss gives out the outfits,







































I'll find out myself and use it at the right time.



I need to talk to you.









She's the first joy in my life.

























Ida called this morning.














First of all.


























And the first time was the hook or the uppercut? I didn't do hooks.







These guys are willing to bet on anything.






That's why I need you.











































I need a job... and a little work, that's all.





Head of the new dock.



To beautiful eyes?




























He got the first prize, and me?







































That's what Andy was called on that last night.






















































































Mr. Malloy, is it true that the night Joe Doyle died... you saw him last?











































Terry, you need to drop this port.




























You need more men, Mac?

Bring the first person you meet.
















You want some more trouble?














I'm glad I destroyed you.

I'm happy about that.













You want him?



















































































I think she needs to be examined by a mechanic.









She needs to be towed to the garage, madam.












































New car, mink coat.































I didn't ask for the first three.


Go ahead and meet me if you think it's okay.
































They're always hiding in big cities.









- You need Wheeler.
- I need him alive.




Most important.



















I smoked a pack of cigarettes in the last two hours.








- 7:00 in the morning. - Yes.










A new car, a mink coat and no watch.


















You know one happy marriage in a poor family?









































The debt wasn't that big.














No, all I had to do was find out first night.
















































































I had a headache this morning.










You don't look very good the last couple of nights.









Thanks for the ride. But I have to go.

























Big.


It's like you're not in the first place.











You don't have to explain it to me.


















We need to talk.



















You need to stop him.






















































I've heard that twice this morning.





























They'll probably be out till morning.
























































- We need to call Rick.














































He needed him alive.









We just need to keep quiet.

































































Last hour, yes.



























And I need an answer.



































You need money.













We don't need a crowd here.





































Maybe they need your help.
No, they don't need us, or they'd have asked us to.






























































I need my partner gone for at least an hour.






















Is it that bad?













Does it matter?












She needed ice cubes.



































Yeah, she needed ice cubes.












It's quiet in the apartment, it's quiet in Schaeffer's street, too.


I need you.






























When was the last time you spoke to him?



















I'm afraid I have some bad news, Lona.










Extreme needs a magazine.












































We'll be back in the morning.





























































We didn't need the money, did we?


When you wake up in the morning, do you still feel tired?








Hannison, how did you become such a good editor with such a bad memory?










This week, I'm gonna lose my best photographer, and you're a new trip.


















But you asked for something new and dramatic.



















I hope the news is good next time. I said good morning. Oh, good morning.






Hello, darling.




























First you break your leg, then you look out the window, see what you don't need to see.






Now you're gonna have three years of happy fatherhood behind bars."












She's a beautiful young woman, and you're a healthy man.




I'm not ready for family life.
Every man is ready for family life if he meets a suitable woman.







Some happy marriages began at gunpoint.


She's too perfect, too beautiful, too talented, too educated.

Do you need something special?


She's from the highest society, Park Avenue, from among expensive restaurants and literary meetings with cocktails.




Maybe someday I'll get married. But if I think about it, it's gonna be the man for whom life is more than a new dress, lunch with lobsters and fresh scandals.
I need a woman who...

















We're still like this, but we're happy every minute we spend together.











If you need anything, call me.
Honey.

































This night will mark the last week of Jeffrey's imprisonment in a cast.


















Put it in the oven, Carl, on a small fire.



- Give me a big glass.




I can imagine how tedious the time has been for you. And the last week must have been the hardest.












I had a meeting this morning, then I went to Waldorf, had a drink with Madame Dufren. She just arrived from Paris, brought the most recent news.



We were discussing a new show.
Then I had to go home and change.












































I hope they're ready this time. Where did this wonderful music come from?



This music is beautiful.



At least you can't say lunch is bad.













































You don't have to be deliberately disgusting to prove that I'm wrong.









































Nope. Good night. What is it, madam?





Insurance digging would be nice if you slept in bed at night, not in a chair.






















What can he sell at 3:00 in the morning?










What happened this morning?























"Oh, yeah, yeah." You're an excellent conversationalist.





Well, if she's pretty, she doesn't have to do anything.
She just needs to be.
Aren't I beautiful?










































She needs constant care.








































Thank you, darling.






Good night.
Good night.


You need to come here and see the whole thing.





















I didn't call officially, I called my old friend.
An old, vetted friend.




























It's a big risk.















Have you had any headaches lately?








She left the apartment for the first time yesterday morning.

- 6:00 a.m.
6:00 A.M.

Very bad.







- Torwalds, 6:00 a.m.









Did you check his latest bank account?

























- He needs proof.





There's nothing left in this apartment by morning's evidence, and you know it.

What do you need to do for a search?


I'll say I don't need to be attacked.

















Do you need anything, Jeff?




















- Good night, fool. - Good night.










































Because she didn't know she was leaving. And where she went, she doesn't need a purse anymore.







Are these basic necessities?


Honey, I agree with you.
Tom Doyle has a ready answer:
That Mrs. Torwald left yesterday at 6:00 a.m.?

And I have a ready objection to Mr. Doyle:






















- I bet yours isn't that small?











What beautiful music.

- On the contrary, darling.




Well, surprise is an important element of attack.


































Coffee will be ready soon.







It wasn't Mrs Thorwald with him yesterday morning.







































I put them on a happy and legitimate path.


















Yeah, Jeff, if you need any help again... turn to the yellow pages.



























Announcer of new rides.


























Why would Torwald kill a little dog?










Lisa, there's a little yellow box on the shelf, see?




I hope there's more to this than beautiful legs.













But with one important difference.










Sure, if he didn't put it vertical. But then he wouldn't need a knife and a drink.














We need to get into this apartment somehow.

































One with a diamond, one with a big rock, and one with gold.


To take this ring off me, I need to cut my finger off.
















We just need a few minutes.




































































































- How much do you need?
It's the first record of a burglary, which means 250.




















































Hello? What do you want?


What do you want? Money?


Don't be quiet, tell me what you need.









Lisa, honey, if anything happened to you...







Thorwald is ready to give us a tour of the river.







That's the first one.


My sweet dog.










Honey, enough about this.
































But it looks like white people need it.

































































I was too young the last time I saw him.
















































I'm ready.







You'll be even prettier in them.










Good luck, sweetheart.





















All you need is my money.







































When we sell the first harvest, you'll get a present.

































- From the first shot.














































- We're old friends.


























She's beautiful, isn't she?
There's an old saying, Mark: "It's only on the surface."







Beautiful, aren't they?
















I said you were beautiful, and he said it was only on the surface.



It's a saying of old chickens.







Buying beautiful clothes, living in a fancy hotel in a big city.








Hey, come on, it's all set.



















































If he gets there first, it could end badly for one of us.








































The money is as good as the seeds in the ground.







I need some water.




















To kill him, you need something stronger than a butt.















































































I needed the money to leave.
















It's a big difference.
























If you spend your whole life eating other people's leftovers, you're willing to do anything crazy just to catch your luck.






















Listen. It was a bad man.













"You're more patient, you're less afraid"?



























I'm ready.




















- I ate a worm once, but then I was just a kid.























- Are you ready?







- You're not good to her.







She said that sometimes you do bad things that look good when you do them.







































You're not really bad.


You could be nice if you tried a little bit.








































































































Careful, that's the last one.


















- Yes. When he wants something, it doesn't matter to him what it costs.







































































Maybe that's all he needs.


































































































- In case he doesn't hear well.







- Take whatever you need.




























































Beautiful, fertile, where many peasants flow to the market every weekend.
























Yeah, with the first chick who's gonna like it!



























Sorry, you asked me to tell you the latest news.











































You're the last. And everyone's waiting...
































































- And thank you very much!





























'Cause at home, everybody says it's all one big lie!








































First time I'm tired, I'm so happy.






































- Good morning, Don Nemesio!
- Good morning.












Isn't it stupid to spend so much money on it when you can buy a beautiful horse for it?




- Good morning!
- Good morning, Tata!






































































But who would notice them on such a pretty face?













































































It's getting worse and worse.




Angiano v. Menchak. Codine versus Lepe... and it's all because of old stupid fights!
















When do the poorest buy the last penny of revolvers?



































































Cosimo Angiano's death set the old feud back on fire.

- Good morning, Don Anselmo.
- Good morning, Don Nemesio.
- Good morning.

















































































It's so good to see you!





- I really need it!





- Tell me what's new!





























































- Oh, come on, it's the old song again!

Now it's new!







































































































Go your way and bury the dead in peace!


Go your way!









- Worse than ever.













- Good morning, Donya Joaquinita.

















Prepare for bad news.




It's gonna be a big loss.

Dear Felipe.

























Death has a lot to do lately.

































































When you're ready, send Honorio to me with a message, and we'll go wherever you want.






































































And this marriage gave birth to me, the last of Angianos.
Everyone in the village is waiting for me to get in a fight with Romulo, the last of Menchak.



It takes a lot of courage to pretend to be a coward.
Thank you very much.




































- Aren't you happy?


























































































She's so beautiful.











- Like the skin on the drum is old, but strong.




- Good to see you.
- I'm glad I could recognize you.
He played you when you were little, didn't he?












And remember, if you need us, we're ready.









They're all so happy to see you.


- Nice to meet you.















Don't worry, calm down.










Nice to meet you.












That's the first time I've heard Angiano say that.















I believe that courage must be used for more noble tasks.
















































































































You shot first, and I wasn't even armed.




















- Always a pleasure, cousin.









- Of course, my little doctor.





















The estate was really big, and there were a lot of servants in it.



And there was also a man whose title was never named, who was following a small pool in which a goldfish named George lived.

Fairchild was a great chauffeur, and he was as impeccable as the eight cars he had in his care.

It was the night before the annual yacht racing. In Long Island, Larrabi's tradition has been a reception over the past 30 years.



















We have to overcome this passion!



























If mom was alive, she'd be happy to know where you're going to study.


Your mom and I have lived a beautiful life.

































You don't have to carry me.























So when we break him, we don't have to torture him, we have to be merciful and fast like guillotine.


















Dear daddy, or sher daddy, as they say here.








He says he's ready to go to town. What about David? What's she writing about him?





That's not good. Yesterday I decided to be reasonable, and I tore up his picture...


That's not good.
Good morning, Fairchild. Good morning, sir.
Beautiful weather, sir.











Good morning, Miss McCardle.









Dear David, I would like to remind you that you are Larrabi Industries' junior companion. Our office address:



























Dear Baron, you've outdone yourself!


I'll tell you what, honey, you forgot to turn on the oven.
Ooh! I've been watching you for a long time, honey.



















And first, you need to stop looking like a sad horse.







Baron is 74 years old. He's very sweet and wise.
He has a bed in the opera, racing horses, beautiful paintings, and his own vineyards.


An incredibly spicy skirt and open shoulders! Good morning, sir.

















- I need him now!













The lucky chosen woman is Elizabeth Tyson, the rich heir.






























Does this have anything to do with the Tysons owning the largest cane plantation in Puerto Rico?










David, Elizabeth is a very beautiful girl.


















A new commodity has been created, something useful to the world.
New production will emerge in underdeveloped countries.


What's wrong with giving people libraries, hospitals, baseball sites and movies on Saturday night?

















I think you'll be happy, David.
Dear Daddy! I'm gonna graduate next week.






Not just making whisky sauce or veal head with vinegar gravy. I've learned a much more important recipe:



You don't have to meet me at the airport.

















Beautiful!





















































I look so stupid, I'm ready to kill myself.










Amazing! You've become a beautiful lady!









Sorry, Sabrina, I had to take Mrs Larrabee to the hairdresser.








Since we're old neighbors, we need to celebrate the meeting.








I know a great French restaurant on First Avenue, although you probably won't like it after Paris.




























David, the last legs of "something" cost the family $25,000!





They're beautiful, aren't they?


















- Yeah, honey.


Yeah, honey.

I don't want to spend the first 18 hours of my honeymoon on a plane." No! No! Sitting.

- Yeah, honey.




Honey, you're not interested at all?
Of course not, sweetheart.
Really, a beautiful couple!

Elizabeth is very beautiful.









- What? I need to talk to your chauffeur.







Don't worry. Okay, darling.



No, thanks, honey.












- You're beautiful.


























The most beautiful girl!
She has the most beautiful dress!



































That's sweet. Yes.








I'm so glad you're back, Sabrina!















Let's do this: you're gonna sneak out first.



















Linus, I've been saying this kid needs to get away from home for a long time!























And all of them needed an expensive dentist!

































































- He needs you.
- I need him.





It's like there's a window open somewhere, and a nice breeze revives an old shady house...






















Twenty-five thousand dollars of tax-free money is a lot of money, Sabrina.






And how does this operatta end? What's the last act?
























Beautiful as ever.













I invented it myself and took the project to the factory this morning.







- Beautiful girl.



I'm trying to write her a poem, but I can't finish the first verse.












Always ready.















What's the big deal? Elizabeth's gonna be so upset, he's gonna buy himself three new hats at once;

And my dad's gonna open the bottle, he's gonna buy three expensive cigars, and he's gonna threaten to send me to the copper mines in Butt, Montana.






How are you, my dear?








Yes. That's why you needed glasses!
Yeah, that's why you needed glasses!


Yeah, he needs to go to the sea!


We don't need complications, do we?











Then I'm gonna write her a round-the-clock check and let her forget about David! She doesn't need money.
She needs love.

She's the last of the romantics.









Work in Puerto Rico needs to start 48 hours!


















- You need to be dusted! - Excuse me?

















































If you could take a longer look, Dad, you'd know he's very nice.

Good morning, Miss McCardle.





I need two tickets to the 7th Sound.




Fairchild, I'm gonna need you tonight.



























First class, of course.













I saw a picture of an office like this in the old issue of Focheun magazine, at the dentist's...





















No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's like juggling oranges.

























Linus, I'm really glad you're coming!




Are you ready, Sabrina?



Here's what needs to be done on the first day in Paris:
It's gonna rain, not rain, it's gonna rain really hard. Find yourself a nice companion and take her to a taxi in the Bulon Forest.
Rain is very important.










How do you say my brother has a beautiful girlfriend?











Let's say you meet someone on the boat on the first day.














Not so good. I bet he slept through the play, and then he hurt you talking about stocks, the Dow Jones index, financing, and paying taxes.










- Beautiful! What else did Dr. Calloway say?


















What's wrong with you, sweetheart? Are you worried about something?










We're gonna have a great time, honey.











There he is, sweetheart.








Tony came up with a great idea:






We're gonna need 2,000 closets. Tell me it's time to monopolize the market.







Miss McCardle, we need to book two cabins on Liberty.
















































I shouldn't have seen you, Linus. I shouldn't have called you.

I'm glad you're leaving in part.


















I don't think I need to drink.
Well, I do.



































After the first meal, all questions shall be voted unanimously.









I just made a new haircut, that's all.








It's the last time we see each other.

















In Paris, there are no umbrellas, and under any circumstances, it's raining on the first day.





New egg.























A new sign on Larrabi's skyscraper.













I was happy in Paris.
I'm sure you could be happy there, too.


Good morning! - Good morning!


Good morning.








Ready?





Bring a large bottle of sniffing salt.












Good morning!
I'm glad to report that the stitches have been removed.




It's all set.






Aren't you happy?




What's wrong with that? I don't know anything about dow jones' index, but I know about kissing.












Tell her if you need money.

Goodbye. What makes you think Sabrina still needs me?
Of course I do.

















Sweet David.















The biggest bubble.
























Hi, honey.
















These newspapermen need to be beaten half to death, crushed and put on paper!






























Thank you very much.




























































































































Mom and I are happy to see you.




















Beautiful girl.





























































My husband was bigger, stronger, more crafty.

















































Matahati-san, you're sweet and kind, not like this wild boar!































Otsu! Honey!





































It's a big relief to hear that.


















I'm glad.





















































































































I'm sure he'll say, "Dear Takuan, where's the rest of it?"

























Too bad you didn't!





























































And today is a beautiful moon, isn't it?





Easy.






















































But I can't make you happy!
























You're the first to cut Takezo.
Am I... the first?














































Then something beautiful happened. What's that?




Don't talk about old wars.




Beautiful!
































I'm not ready, sir.

















But you need another one.


You're a new man born again.

Thank you very much.










You told me the two of us were gonna help each other start a new life!











I've been thinking about you in the castle all the time. Then why, honey?




































What, honey?






























Every pair of hands is important to you to survive.























































Come on, we have to hurry.





































Don't worry. It's okay, honey.


















- Thank you very much. But there's someone else with us.










Thank you very much.





















- Thank you very much.












- Thank you very much.



Thank you very much.


































They're too small!


















- He's the first rich guy there.











They're gonna have to work just as hard as the rest of us!


































































































Now I understand why you keep your names secret, but you still need to be called something.









- But this is a very important guest from Kyoto!


















































































Sado is a large island.


You're getting worse.




It's like you're here for the first day.














Who started singing such a sad song?


































Bad, Nakagimi.







It's the first thing about our mom.















Who needs us?



































You'll be happy in your next life.
Ready?




















Go to the big temple in Nakayama, they'll help you.











I'll come back for you, even if it's the last thing I'll do in my life!



























































































- Okay, I'm glad to hear it.
- Thank you very much.
I'm so glad.

















I hate to object to you, but I'm willing to give my life to make my dreams come true.

Then do what you see fit.

I know. And I'm ready for that.


Thank you very much.
















































He gave it to your family for a lot of credit.



































Now I can give them a happy life.












































Interference in their affairs will have serious consequences. Especially if it's the big estate of the right minister.












































Who the hell is this new governor?






















- Are you ready?





















- I'm sure... such recklessness will strike you first!
































































































She died two years ago when there was a big tsunami.











































































































- It's not gonna get any worse!





























Last pies.





































We peasants distinguish good grain from bad, but we don't know anything about samurai.




















Shino is a beautiful girl...











Yeah, that's not good...
























What do you want?


















What do you want?
What do you want?











Stupid old fool.













We need at least four people, one on each side.




So we're gonna need three more.






















































































































Are you ready to fight?


This battle could be our last.
And where do they hide when they need to?















My rule is to run first.




Bad.


















The lost fish always seems big.



















It's actually an old friend of mine.




























































































































































Well, if that's the case, it's an honor to meet him.






In fact, what can we do wrong now?





Quiet! All I need is precise answers.

















































































First step forward!


































































































Bad memories...





























































































































It's stupid to risk twenty because of three.






ANTRACT (end of Part One)


























































I already thought it was an old fat mouse.







Yohei's horse is too old.











































































































They need a guide!



























































































































Beautiful!
























The attack will begin in the morning. This time, with all the remaining forces.

































We're letting the first one in!
Remember! We're gonna have to close the line right after the first one.





A new attack!





















'Cause it's okay.




































But for the last seven... we paid dearly.












Yes... fighting will be desperate. And I think they're attacking in the morning?










Manzo! I'm letting you go home first.























Better sleep and be ready to fight.





















What's wrong with two people in love?















































This first floor plan shows Cronborg how it was built by Frederick II, and what it looks like today.
And this is the plan for the first floor of Eric's castle from Pommerne, Krogena.



Okay, the big room was restored in its original form.










In an old description, it is called His Majesty's House.











Next to him are the remains of one of the old shooting windows through which the King's room was lit.




The walls of old Krogen are made of heavy bricks built as a so-called English bandage,

In front of the end wall of the arsenal was the most important building:
A large hall of Krogen, 37 meters long, and six in height, with small windows.


They reach through the first and second floors of Cronborg.





One of the old Gothic vaults has been restored.

At the end of the big hall, there's a fully preserved ladder.






A segment of the old ring wall with a fighter was discovered.


He built the Kronborg and kept the old castle inside the new one.






















































































































































































































































Very nice.















































And take it easy with me!



All the worse for you.
That's all you need.

His wife was the last straw...
































It's worse and worse.






















There will be a memorial service for Georges Bagot in the morning.






























I have something important to tell you!





























What's this? Nice, nice.





























Not so bad.











To drag you back in the morning.
























































































































Not bad.
















Eve is a beautiful name.









First time.
Bad sign.






















































Do you need it?















"My dear, I love you."

















I'd be the last to say that in your communion.











































You want to be the first?












































And you're an asshole ready to steal it!
















It doesn't matter.
































































































Thank you, little brother!


I live far, in the jungle, behind the Old City. Antelope: By the humpback mountain, where a green bamboo sounds.



Come, little brother!













- You know! You stood hugging like old friends!
Say it! Or you're gonna be sick.
- I'm sick as it is.




I don't need a coin.

If I don't need one, why am I doing this?








































Oh, I'm glad for you, they're real.

























































Don't cry, little ones!


Thank you, little brother!





Old town!

Thank you, little brother!






Goodbye, little brother!







I'm so glad I found you!
What happened, little brother?




And if you need me, give it three times, and I'll show up.



















If you don't tell me where the antelope is before the last grain falls down, you're gonna get your head cut off.




















You called me, little brother?










Go, little brother!





How much gold do you need?


























Come on, little brother!































Dear sir, we're very surprised you didn't answer for 10,000 tons of wood.

We hope it'll be clear by now. And you'll understand how important this is to all of us.





I haven't done that in the last four years.





































It's not bad news... even the other way around...




















Thank you, darling.




The priest said it was bullshit. It's just the old lady's fiction.
















New tuxedo?



It's very important to dress with taste.











To lay in their place this morning.













Miss isn't ready yet.

















Good night, Dad.

















- 7:00 a.m. to be in my office.

Good night, Aunt Mathilde.
Good night, Mathilde.

And how did the little bastards come to think of it?



- He's old.

- Good morning, Dad.
- Good morning, bastards.


Who's first?
- Dad... you don't have to do this!

We're too big.












Good morning, Philippe.




- You don't have to do that.







- Good morning, Monsieur Gontran.
- Good morning, Marie, how are you?


















- Good morning, Marquis.
- Good morning, postman.



Well, of course they need rain.






Meet me at 7:00 in the morning.



















- Good morning, Marquis.
- Good morning, Marie.



They're gonna eat every last crumb.
























Good to see you.

But I'm glad.





You can use my old cab.




























You need to know how to use the money.











The fields are small.
































If they're educated, it's worse.
























I want her to be happy.





































- They need me.
























































Pierre just wants to know if we're ready to go to the scaffold for him.


















Here's the door... you'll catch the last train to Paris.



















We need a drink.



I didn't realize this was going to happen this morning.
Beautiful building, but I think living here would be boring.








I'm ready to eat a horse!









Please don't apologize.

























You don't have to be so sad.










When I'm happy, that's what I say.














We're happy to welcome you to Conti!

I have to thank you for a nice morning.



































"My darling, you don't have to give yourself hope..."









We have to start somewhere!
























































- Good morning.

I need a room for two.








You don't have to.


































Don't you realize we're going to Paris in the morning? ..to get married there?














You don't have to protect him. Let's go outside...










I thought you'd be happy that I was proving my love.























I'm not going back to this house and it's all here! As you wish, sweetheart...


























































Aren't you happy?




























It's really good to see you.

- No, I don't smoke in the morning.


You know that there is an old law... to transfer the property of spouses to their descendants. The surviving spouse, however, reserves the right to dispose of the inheritance.





For the last 14 years.


And I'm so happy about it.





















She doesn't need an ambassador to speak on her behalf!










































I'm always happy to see you.









- Are you happy with what your son is doing?



























I said to myself, "You're too old to understand."









































But if there's no money, it's worse...







Ready to give everything... and get nothing.






The last...







I understand as well as he does what it's like to be an aristocrat.













He needs it.























Living in Mobran is an expensive pleasure, as he says.






























You have to swear to me properly.


































































We need someone of authority.






You're gonna have to die first.








I'll kill you first!



All I need is... revenge!







































I don't need this... you know?








This is the last order I give.






































































































Are you okay, Niels?
It's not bad, I just fainted for a minute.















It's an honor, but you deserve it.



But very small!
Even a very small boy can give you a lot of trouble.


He's very sick.


But tomorrow morning, he must leave the pack.



























































A happy mother hugs her child!


She really needs it. Thank you.









































And I'm gonna be a baby forever?




Well, the third condition you'll know when the first two are done.









This is Hermenrich, the oldest resident of Glimingen Castle.




























Page one!













That's exactly what we need!

















































Ready to serve the King!


Look, Rosenbom, he didn't run around here, little boy, like a sparrow, and naughty as a monkey!




I dare to report, he ran... uh... to the old shipyard!















Let's give the last debt to the witness of the former glory!





























It's time to find out your third last condition.
You're gonna be big again when your closest friend comes to the lunch table with cabbage and apples.






















I'd rather be a little boy for the rest of my life...
You're not gonna stay little, Niels!






















Have your eyes fallen ill, dear colleague?









Thank you, darling.
We all need a vacation.










But in the rain like this, I'd better take my old umbrella.


















At first, you have no idea how happy I was with him.























Exactly, she needs some fresh air.






But now she's a beautiful little wreck.


Yeah, my little wreck?
Yeah, old man, a little brown bottle.













Potar has excellent English grades, especially for writing.













































Beautiful fish, Monsieur Raymond.
Beautiful, Mr. Director, beautiful!


























When I was a kid, I was fed with merlans.
And silver syringe is too expensive for them.








But when it comes to children, no, I'm ready to rise!

Calm down, darling.

Die, darling, die, but quickly.




I leave at 7:00 in the morning.
Have a good weekend, darling, take care!




















Our personal drivers don't work properly, dear colleague.









Although it's a whole problem, it's a big problem.










































You haven't sent your rent in a long time, dear madam.










Turn off the light, what's wrong with it, it's an expensive pleasure.



I'm gonna need a number 27-45.



















I'll get on the train tomorrow morning and pick you up at Nicole's.
















































I don't understand anymore. I'm a wreck, a little wreck.

But a little wreck will avenge itself.
She's gonna hold on to everything she needs, even if she goes down.



Now we need you to be calm, very calm.

















Dear radio listeners, you just listened to the play.

























For divorce, my girl, as for marriage, it takes two.




I was at his place this morning. He assured us that he could conduct our divorce proceedings quickly.








































With your money and my connections, I'd do a lot of business.



We had to trade a big luxurious car for a limp.
I even sold my shares and wore my old suits.































We'll leave right away, we'll be home in the morning.



































He was very nice.

He's ready, we can reschedule.





























































It's not very nice of you to leave us so quickly.













Right, I'll get you some old tin wire from the dining room.













































I don't need a place.






































Good night. Good night, ladies.
Turn off the lights, we don't need our number to be noticed.
We don't need music either.


























Beautiful, so write:



Yes, my dear. For the third time, I'll drink my wine, chemically pure.
















Tonight, tomorrow morning.






And you're talking like a kid. Unit. What's worse?
















































































Well, dear colleague, is our headmistress feeling better?





































The one he was in the last day.


















Sorry, madam, your laundry this morning brought the suit to Saint-Clue.







This morning, the messenger forgot something.








First street to the right, house twenty-seven.



















































I'll call the police first.








































































So, are you all right, lady?





























































My darling, in Paris, a hundred men in their 30s, the brunettes are seven feet tall.












But be cool, I'll find him.











- Yesterday morning.




























































The whole church understood Latin. Any skinny priest in a small village understands Latin.




















































We'll see which one of us will be the first.


























He asked Dr. Breeda to come here tomorrow morning.








































I could put her in my clinic, but it's an expensive pleasure.







This is the first time I've held an honorary seat.






























































































You should take a sleeping pill. Good night.
Tomorrow morning... you'll wake up justified.






Have you seen a big trunk around here? You've seen it, monsieur.






Me too, dear colleague, me too.





Good night, sir.
Good night.























She was taken away this morning. She didn't die when she came back.





































































It's like old times!
































I'll do it tomorrow morning.
Putzchen, are you ready?



























You're cute sometimes.
All right, lovers, are you ready?












- In such a small role?





It's important.














I need a beer.









Bombardies are needed, too. To General Harras!















- It doesn't matter at all.















To take some steps, I need to know... I need to know your opinion.





































Yeah, you old tough peanut!



























Hey, old bandit!

I was gonna call you an old kick.
You're allowed to poke, even though you're a big shot now?
- We fought World War I together.




















What does he want from me?


- I need to talk to you, Harry.













A new uniform again?


















So they need me.
And I need to be able to speak freely.







As early as 1933, we knew that a new war was under way.












And a brand-new one!






















































Beautiful blonde.


































Ah, that's it! You say to yourself, this old master is a historic monument. He must be respected.






































Unlike your "important friends" who will come a day, so they will stop.

But even less do you like monocles from Genstab.











For aphorism to apply to me, you need to replace "eat" with "drink" and "puke" is for sure.







































Attention, big news:
Coffee's ready!









































These are the best people, my dear!




















Beautiful.




















Did anyone ever think to give you a new watch?

All the women I knew. But I don't need it.



From the first French pilot I hit.





















I'm a big shot, damn it!
And I'm sure they need me.


























Good morning, Hartmann.



















I'm an old soldier.


Hitler's was my first family.


































- What do you want from General Harras?


















It's the right thing to do...







One:
The first 10 days...












With this beautiful medallion, we'll know your number.




















































Your "important friends"?













































The real question is, when do we get a new model?















During your absence, there have been further accidents.
























Who else needs a scapegoat?

























































































When she's happy, she cries.















These guys need a war!"


Two weeks later, you were a big shot at Aviation.

That was the first step.














Twelve new planes were sent to the front.



This morning.
















































It's top-of-the-line. Beautiful role. Anyway...





















Frau... it's all set.


































































































You need a woman to push you.




























- Von Stetten took over, with a big pomp.









It's wonderful to fight for your ideals at the cost of your life.


I'm touched by your attention, but I've lied too much myself all these beautiful happy years.








How happy he was to fight for a better world, for us, for the children...






















There's the last one.











I reread his last letter again.
























I've had worse.







































































For the sake of a new order in Europe, to conquer the East, to build a truly new world!














































It's the first victim!






























It's the beginning of a new life!




















Herr Hartmann. I'm leaving... on a big trip.



I'm glad I saw you again.



























General Harras crashed, testing a new fighter.














Everything's ready for lunch.

I'd definitely stay, but I need to return the dishes I borrowed.






Last-minute warning. As usual.


Now that he's 40, he'll start thinking that any woman over 18 is old enough for him.








- Bye, darling.


























Maybe this is the last time this year.












What a beautiful legend.




- Hello, darling!
















- No, honey, he wasn't in town.



If there's anything I can't stand, they're old depraved men.











What, honey?


























- Cary, darling!






- I'm glad.






























- Cary, honey, it's our age.


Come on, darling. Cary!





















Cary, darling!




















I'm glad I got out of there.
You're so beautiful, Cary.
Too pretty to be lonely.










They're going to build a new pool here.















You don't know what you need.



















I don't know if you're ready to think about marriage again...
No... I don't think I'm ready for this.

But I don't think you need it.

Comrade relations and affection are much more important.


- Good night, darling.
- Good night, Harvey.






How can someone so small be so smart?







- Bye, darling.







































- What a beautiful color.







It takes five years to raise them?


One day I'm gonna tear down that old mill and plant more silver oil.



I like to look at old buildings.
It's a very old mill.












I think those old boards are rotten.


















































Because television is supposed to be the last comfort of a lonely woman?
That's very nice of you, but I don't want a TV.
















































You wouldn't believe it, but he used to be an important person in New York.









I told him you had such beautiful legs that I never saw anyone else...














First you have to take some ice, two parts of the liquor, mix...













- That's so beautiful.



























You seem so happy!

But then we weren't happy.
Our whole life has been dedicated to being as good as anyone else.


































Mick, honey, take this.







Oh, no, thank you, darling.





I caught myself this morning!

She's beautiful.







- It's so good to see you!




















With my new teeth, I wouldn't even try!











I don't need a TV.









And a big window.
Beautiful view of the lake.













Old grills. I'm trying to turn him into a table.























You're avoiding something very important because you're afraid.







It doesn't matter.




Honey, don't cry.





















- Glad you had the opportunity to leave.
- Where did you go, darling?
















































































I'm in the basement, darling.



- How are you, darling?




























Oh, my darlings!































You have to understand how important this is to me.







































No, no. He repaired the old mill.


Mom, I need to read something and get ready for class.



























Hold my cocktail, darling.


- What's wrong with money?
- To despise them, you have to have them.








And she's the last person to be expected to...


I'm so glad you could make it!



Come on, darling.

- Cary, my dear.


Beautiful man.


Come on, darling.













- My dear, I heard that...


I've been cutting your bushes for the last three years.

- Oh, Sarah, I really have to go.









- Oh, my dear, he's adorable.






























Nothing matters but us.




Thank you, but... good night.
Good night.







































Kay, darling, what happened?










Oh, honey!







Do you love him enough to ruin our lives?















- Well... let's give the kids time to get used to that thought.

















- What's wrong with that?



















Don't you realize we'll never be happy if we let them do this?










Everyone will be happy to have you back.









- Yeah, she's just happy.








- Oh, great.


I have to go to class. Goodbye!

Was he happy?

- Hello, darling!





Good to see you. - Hello, Doctor.





- I'm ready to see you now.








- I need more.





I need a tree for the kids.





























- It's so good to see you!












It's beautiful, Kay!














You shouldn't have taken this seriously.





After all, this is the last Christmas we spend in this house.









It's too big for one person.










Merry Christmas, Mrs. Scott, and happy New Year.

He's got a big screen and he's easy to control.
All you have to do is turn this disc around and you'll get that TV channel you want. Right here on the screen.







I haven't been able to do anything lately.






















































And what was your noble sacrifice for?







You were ready for a love affair, but not for love.



- It's so good to see you!
- Nice to meet you, too! Have you been to the doctor?





























































It doesn't matter anymore.

















He needs peace and care.
And he needs you, Cary.




Yes, darling. I...



































- Who needs a desk like this? - No, I lived four years in London where I studied English. (English )
Now, guys, let's look at the words "more" and "most."

"My book is more beautiful than yours."






























































































































Kamurati and Petrocinetti just said hello (Chao) this morning and said goodbye (Chao) after school.
But one morning, sad rainy morning, Mario had a chance to sit back at her old desk, comfortable and fit.

But Mario didn't come back to the old place. Who knows why?












































































Big factory.







































- Hello, darling.


























































Small boxes in the front seat.











- You're crooked. - What's wrong with that?








































It's just the worst.

































































Big difference.









































My dear...































Tomorrow morning, wake me up, as usual, at seven o'clock.













































- No, I'm done with the bike.





























































- Hello, darling.


















She called me this morning and told me she was inviting everyone.



































































- Oh, hello, darling!





















- You got a new tie?


















There's no bad in the good.





- Nice to meet you.

















Yes. I made it this morning.























































- However! Beautiful, aren't they?






Who's the lucky woman?






































Beautiful?
Yes, it's beautiful.


But beautiful...



















One day it turned out that Petrocinetti had a passion for horses.

















- Hello, darling.








































- What are you wearing? New costume for school, huh?




- Mario's wearing a new suit!



You're a bad girl. Get in the corner!


- What's gotten into you this morning?
- Just put on a new suit.
- New suit, new suit.

She's old.
He's old. And I've been working here for two hours.



And, you see, this signorino wants to go to school in a new suit!























I'm sorry, but they showed you in the morning, didn't they?


































What's she like? Beautiful?

What's she like? Beautiful?



Willa "Maddalena" - Signorino, what do you want?




























- How come you haven't seen him all morning?








- What have you been doing all morning?














































- New cars?



Beautiful.


"Dear Mario, I'm writing you to say... "Is this a letter for me?













- I don't get it, you mean two old hairs?

































- How do you remember your old house so well?



















It's a reception room, but it's beautiful.





Can you imagine when I was a kid, I liked to come here and play the piano?


We need light!




Still, my mom was beautiful. Right?





- Look, we need to make an oath.



































- You'll see him in the morning at school.



















I have to go back to the boarding school where I've been for the last three years.


















- Was it really that important?
- It wouldn't matter, I wouldn't rip.
























You pointed out that there are important questions.
He even wrote that they were very, very important."






























Sorry, honey.

































Then there was a big sports event.











No, you're too small.

















Giuseppe Madzini ran before first class.


















Number 5, a little hamster glasses, didn't stand out, but surprised by the pace worthy of the Flood.









- What about you, sweetheart? - What else do the soldiers do at the barracks?

























Right? If I go forward and I go to the finish line first, it could be 5:23 or maybe 5:22.

















































































































- I have to go home.

- I feel sick.






- But listen, are you really sick?








"I have a beautiful book."
In Latin, it sounds like, "I own a beautiful book."






- Hurry up, soup's ready. - I'll be right back, Mom.


























































- I need a piece of chalk to go on.





























- I don't know. It takes time for customs and a passport.































He's the son of an important person. Petrocinetti.































If you work in the film industry and succeed, this well-behaved suburb of Hollywood is likely to be your new home.











I'm sure he'll be glad to see you.








Hurry up, honey.
What does Patty want, Charlie?





















Patty, honey.
How are you, sweetheart?










- French paintings, darling?









When we first met, you could only talk about the New Deal or the fair course or some other course.







I hear your new movie's good.

- What about the new contract?





















I need gossip from the horse's mouth, not from her tail.







I've got everything ready to bother you.







I can't understand, honey.











What kind of friendship did you feel when Big Brain left your car on your lawn and brought the police on Christmas Eve?


He's all, your dear friend almost ruined his career and didn't throw you out of history.







You just made a big fool of yourself.




Am I interrupting something important?


Hi, honey.








They sell lovely perkeleton sheets at a very modest price.













Okay, I'm glad we came to an understanding.









I'm in the film business, honey.















Beautiful.
It's just beautiful.






I've been looking at her a lot in the last few days.
Sometimes, when I'm lonely, an old clown waits for his hour, he's waiting for a follow-up.







































Are you gonna sign a new contract?



I'm far from ideal, but you're making a mistake thinking you can face a big, wide world alone.




























It's just beautiful.










He's writing a new novel.























I don't want one of those lunatics selling the soul of guys drinking gin exchanging phone numbers and last-minute gossip!









Beautiful.

















Honey, there's always gonna be Stanley Hoffa in our world.








Honey, we're both wrong.
I had to give a damn about feeling sorry for myself and push you.




















It's beautiful, it's very beautiful.
I need you.



I hope I'm not interrupting something important.






I have a lot to do, I have to get ready for my family's dinner.















What's new?











Let's not get distracted, I saw your manager this morning.

He said you were a bad boy.










You're both so cute mortal.







- Honey, listen to me.

















Okay, darling, the first thing I have to tell you is Stanley called me to his office this morning about the contract in two hours, hello columbia put you in front of the fact, they'll look in here.







Honey, I'm terribly worried.







But you're wrong, dear sir and friend, in everything...








Charlie, a few important words.
































- How do you wake up in the morning, kitten?

















I'm ready to be a bartender, with the union's permission.



You're gonna love it, and we'd love your company.





If we could represent the divine will and a happy marriage would be her expression, then we would really start living away from our selfish goals.
Very nice, Stanley.




































Charlie Castle, it's not hard for me to remember our first meeting a lot, many years ago.







"Of course, like a little green apple...





































































I need your presence at the shoot.
I need your body, not your favor.



For the last time, please let me go.







You're a great artist, we need to learn how to predict temperamental actions.









Honey, I know how you feel.



Like a little rag doll.


Honey, look far ahead.

















- I need a drink, Charlie.



You need to keep your door closed, Charlie.

I think I need a tequila.






- A small town.













You're hurting me, darling.

















He's very important.









Don't fight him, darling.













I need to meet my buddy.






You're hurting me again, darling.


Why didn't you tell him, darling?







Have fun, Charlie, don't have any dark thoughts.





You're gonna do me a little favor because I'm in big trouble.
I don't need any more trouble.




He needs lunch.







Look, could you do me a big favor?




I need to do something for Buddy.




















Who needs sugar?






















- Good night, Marion.

- Good night, Hank.
- Good night.



















Honey...




- Calm down, darling.






































Charlie, I'm meeting with a lawyer in the morning.




Am I the worst in our world?
The world is very big.
You're the worst thing in my life.





































She was ready, but...





I saw Tommy Murdoch's new painting today.










- Her mouth is too big.


I turned around, and she sat down, sweetheart, pretty.




All you have to do is find the girl who was driving the night of the accident.





















You need to see her.
Honey?

















Leave me alone, sweetheart.







- No, I have an important call.
- It's okay, honey, he's gonna be quiet.




Please stop, honey.







Bye, honey.







Stupid little bastard.

- She doesn't need any more money?
- She doesn't know what she wants.

Beautiful.







So we need to make sure she doesn't open her mouth.







Charlie, it needs to be eliminated.





- Life is a strange little man.






In my case, you have to know people.































You're very sweet, but I don't believe you.







Old Nat was there, sweetheart.
And the whole big studio when I think about some things they say and do...

You need to be a girl with a good figure to know.





Of course, now I understand that character is more important than shape and dimensions.




















Big or small?




I need to catch up.

Catholics believe in big families.






- No, honey, no.
I like listening to you speak, darling.








You need to be careful.























Charlie, honey, I know when to stop.







"A big part.












Honey, Charlie, why don't you get mad?




















Good night, Mrs. Castle.



I'm sorry, honey, but you're wrong, and I'm gonna bet $60 you're wrong.








I made Hank come back because I really thought you needed me.


























Today you were ready to ruin your life and mine too.










- Marion, I need you.















- Thank you, sweetheart.






It's a big train.









Don't you think Marion would be happy here?
- No, I don't think she'd be happy.









One, realists.





























I can't remember his first name.


























She knows she can stick to the story of the attack, but she says she's ready to tell her story to the press.
































On the day of the first plan, you will marry this plot and his children.
Everything you need right now depends on a couple of sips of a prostitute.
























































He's actually accusing me of murdering a little studio actress who was with him in the car the night of the accident.



















































- Okay, thank you very much.

















































Little lizard under the stone.
Go to the law office this morning and check out Castle's contract and find a suitable case.



There's always a trick, honey.




You and Charlie broke up three times in the last two years.


- Let him finish, darling.






A woman has been seeing a writer lately.






















My career is over, and I'm ready because you're the meanest, dirty bastard God ever breathed.

Forgive me, Charlie, darling, I'm crying.












A little gift.


















You don't need me or the studio to write about you anymore.





I need a tonic.

You don't have to worry.








Charlie, darling, stop smashing your hands.





The worst thing that could happen is that Monty's gonna get her into bed.






Goodbye, darling.
Goodbye, darling.






Honey, Nicky's here.










- No, honey.


Look how cute...

















Listen, honey, could you come here right now?
Yeah, we need your advice.
Yeah, it's very important.







You taught me so much, darling, even how to listen to music.













- Yes, darling.





















I'm gonna go get a big towel upstairs, grab something in the cottage.

















Hello, darling.








Good night, darling.







Lily, connect me to the old man, it's important.


What do you want?













- What a lucky coincidence.








Seven years is a lot of time. We still have a lot to fuck.




























































- That's why it's important.





But no one had a greater awe of life, a taste of it.












- Fat, the smallest member of our expedition.











And in order to see them, you'd have to go back to the past like a giant ladder.
What we need to cross is the Ice Age... the third period... the Mesozoic Era...

At the museum, we showed him other great fossils...




















The most important thing is to protect your big ears. Give me the lamp!














I pulled out my pen and started filling in the front page of our diary...
























The first animal we met in the prehistoric era!


















Well, then you're the first.



























This was the biggest surprise of this cave... these animal drawings...



















Take the first picture of a primal man! That would be some kind of sensational...



























The first caveman...










We need to take off our winter clothes, or we're gonna fry.
















We need to keep an eye on him.
























Indeed, this fish was a beautiful model.








And without fire, we were afraid of camping on the beach. I had to watch out for the first one.







A little light, and how much it helped us...

How important must have been the moment a man first started using fire...



















They would sound very bad, say Gorbatohead or Crooked...
It's gonna be prettier to say Wintery.
Fat, wake up! It's morning.














Is he so small?




















Let's go ashore, Girka needs to dry.
















His head was two meters tall, but his brain was as small as modern cats...



The big spikes protected him from being attacked by predators.








A new copy for our diary.
And the biggest sample of the Mezosa Era was the Brontosaurus.
Maybe even the biggest one that ever existed.





These animals spent most of their time in the water because it helped them to carry their weight more easily.



Let's turn the boat around for more security.




























Now you can see how big this bastard is!


I'm glad he's dead. So we can get a better look at him...
And I'm not happy... we could bring him home...




































With such big footprints, he must have been a huge monster.



























One day the miners will come to this place... because eventually all these strange trees will turn into coal.








We need to make sure we haven't forgotten anything.











He always discovers something new...






















This is the last time we let him get away from us!
We need to give him a good boost...













It's all wet, you need to change.




































And how he found the diary... that's the most important...
You're right, it's Girka's greatest credit!


We crossed the carbon and entered the final stage.






















And that's how the first plants will appear.
And someday they'll turn into big woods...












The first one you found, remember?




















I was raised to be a governess, but it didn't stop me from acquiring bad habits.













You have to act like a little gentleman.


What a little devil!

You promise to behave yourself, don't you, my little angel?







Don't be a bad boy... if you're a good boy and you let me go,















Take it, darling.






















All these rebels need to be hanged!

They say General Gomez will be here tonight, he'll put them in the right place.



















































Well, then, you'll be happy to die... since that means eternal happiness?



















































I killed her deliberately and in cold blood... and she wasn't my first victim.































One day, when I was little, I went with my mother...




























I'm happy to see you.
Bring me the vase I finished this morning.
I need her.









This is the last beige shirt the others will bring later today.




































He knows you're married and have a little daughter.
Same old story again.










I'm so happy to see you, Archibaldo.




What a beautiful vase.











Fine, thank you.
It's beautiful, Archie.
What beautiful colors.




























You believe me... sometimes I see myself as a saint and sometimes... a great villain.
















She's very old and you know at this age...

























They're beautiful, really.
Dear Willie, how much did they cost?







Take it, but it's the last of it.

















I'd love to kill her.











You can get out of here, little man, I don't need you at all!







Tonight's gonna cost you a lot... and besides, I'm gonna leave with the first person I meet.















































I actually deserve more... but people don't know the difference.

















































Nothing, the only thing that matters is that we love each other.


We live in our own little hell.







Nice to meet you, Mr. De La Cruz.








I think I should go.







































































"I don't want to be beautiful after death, which is why...














I'd love to.
















































Yeah, and also because you're very beautiful.

















































Archibaldo came to tell you something important he discussed with me earlier.
















I feel very attached to you, but on such a question.
I need time to make a decision.
































He's a new... made by a master from Coyokana.








































It's beautiful.

Good morning.
Good morning, gentlemen.


The estimate's ready.








































If you don't want me, I'll go.






























I look like a little witch condemned to burn at the stake.
My little Jeanne Darhk.



















You wear beautiful stockings.
































































































Which is more important when you're here.

I'm glad to see you, I'm sorry I let the maid go on the day off.
It doesn't matter, we're glad we caught you alone.











You have no idea how happy you made me.
From now on, I'm starting a new life.







I want you two to be happy.

































































Thank you very much.





That's because our friends are such beautiful people.




















































































Here are the boundaries at 5:45 a.m. on June 18, 1948.










As you know, the ceasefire agreement will enter into force at 5:45 a.m.













You four volunteered for a mission that requires a lot more people.
















He's a big shot, as they say.

Did he mobilize you for our little war?


My first meeting with Berger.







I was glad to hear they disappeared.






- I.D. - A curfew has been declared from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.






























































































The curfew ended at 6 a.m.






If she was working underground, her job wasn't very important to me.



















The war was quieter - before the war?












Maybe that's what he needs to do in his current situation.























First weekend, I was looking for her in places she used to be.
Last time I tried to find her, I went to Usphia, maybe if she was there.










We need to explain.






- What do you care what they say at the cafe?



































I was happy to go to war. I believed in Israel's struggle.


































Transport's ready.















My most expensive thing is here.





But when I went on a tour of the Old City of Jerusalem,



It's impossible to do tours in Old Jerusalem right now.




The Arabs are shooting at those who cross the border between Old Jerusalem and the new one.
We're not throwing our clients on parachute to the old part of town yet.

I'll be your first client to be dropped on parachute.


































The company is ready for your orders.



Since King David, no Jewish soldier has crossed the walls of the Old City.

At midnight, we're gonna break into the Old City through the Zion Gate, and we're gonna free the last cetadel in the siege.











There are 3,000 Jews left in the Old City.





You weren't in the last war?




- You know the Old City? Until now, no one wanted to take me there.
I booked a tour of the Old City of Jerusalem.



















Try not to worry, be calm.


It doesn't matter what.




Is the situation really bad?











Where is he every time you need him?











- Who cares what we choose?

























No matter what happens, never give up.


I have to tell you the bad news.





































We need to get in touch with the enemy if we can, let the commander know.































When the old wars are over, we're gonna have to come up with new ones.

































Old town, Negev, and now it's 24.














Thank you all very much.















Lillian, darling.



Come on, darling.






















You'll be happy, you'll be successful, you'll be rich.


Things are different now, darling.







There's nothing to cry about, darling.
































We're going to Chicago the day after tomorrow, darling.










Who knows if you're gonna be a big star, huh?
Oh, that's gonna be great.


















































Get some rest, darling.














Thank you very much.



















We've made it, darling.










- Okay, thank you very much.




Oh, it's so good to see you.









Filming in a big painting.






























































































Lums is ready.






And then, one little push, and suddenly, you're a millionaire.





























You and I want Lillian to be happy.
And she wants us to be happy.




















- Hey, honey.











It's not about you personally, darling.







What makes David happy will make me happy.





Lillian, honey, you've been working on this, you know, since when?


Believe me, it doesn't matter what I want. What's important is what happened.




















I'd wear it, but it's not ready yet.


Honey, what's the matter?



Don't be stupid, darling.



Hello, Lillian, darling?




I love you, darling.

Honey, are you feeling okay?




I'll do it, darling.

We have to go.








Smile, live, love be happy













Live, love, be happy

















Easy, sweetheart.










Lilly, darling, you don't have to keep him around.







Don't worry, darling.















Good morning.


- Aren't they beautiful, Lillian?
- Aren't they beautiful?
























We'd be very happy to see you backstage.



Lilly, honey, it's time to pack, sweetheart.





Come on, Lilly, darling.









Even at my first audition.








David's dead, darling.






"Lilly, darling, you can't go with David tonight."
"Lilly, darling, I want you to stop dating this boy."



And I don't care if it's good or bad for me.






It was for your happiness, darling.































And then maybe because I can't handle this pain or because I'm bad, I forget.




























- Sorry about the last meeting.






























































I even tried to believe my mom was happy about my marriage.




First round of salad.

And everything was fine.

Except my performances were getting worse and worse than before.


We tried to forget that our marriage was a big mistake.




































































My lawyer will meet you in the morning.
Lillian, it's good to see you.

- It's good to see you, too.



























































But it's not that bad.




















A little cop lives in my head.














Easy.



























I feel like I'm needed.











Is it important?
Anything I do doesn't matter.












- Good night.
- Good night.






































Lilly, darling.




























You know, I got a little cop here with a traffic light.







I'm glad, Lilly.
























Better now, darling?








You know, you should wear a little flask.

Excuse me, darling.
























When he walks on the road the angels sigh, they know little Joe will pass by.






Little Joe.
Little Joe.
Little Joe.





















I don't have a little cop with a traffic light.











Listen. I need someone who understands these things.







Because she said you needed someone who understood that.




I need you, and you need me.
Lilly, darling.





It's so good to see you.











It's business, darling.
















Forget it, darling.














- Thank you very much.


It's for me, darling.



We need to drink to a broken deal in Chicago.

I needed you.









You don't have to drink it, darling.


But, Tony, I know the first one broke our deal.





It's an expensive drink.






You needed me, and I needed you.
Oh, my brother, I need you.









You don't need a husband, you need a guard.




- I didn't finish the conversation, darling.









My maid left this morning because I was very drunk.

















I feel bad.
I feel bad.


































But it's not night, darling.




























Baby, honey.


















- Coffee's almost ready, darling.





Okay, darling.









I need to, Mom.
Yes, darling.
No, no, yes, darling."

















I was a bad mother.



































You know what happens to me when I need a drink.























It's like old days.






































First glass, as I recall...
















But I need to.
I need a drink!






































































I think most girls don't think walking or dancing is important.














I want to ask you who came first or second, raise your hands.





Forget the old stuff tonight.





I visited AA in New England.














That I know that without alcohol, the world is beautiful.
























Smile, live, love be happy































Little Joe.
Little Joe.
Little Joe.




You don't need support.

















So you're my mentor, I need your advice.




And I'm very happy for you.



Beautiful.























You don't need me anymore.








Thank you very much.

Mr. Edwards is ready, Miss Roth.



















They looked closely, and there, on the edge of the forest, they saw a little old man with a long gray beard.


















Jack was astoundingly looking at the beautiful heavenly castle.















































Dear Davy, you haven't heard from me this month. And we're starting to worry if you're okay.
















































It's very nice of you to call me, but...








You need to rest, and we haven't seen you in two years.




















Good night, Davy.















- It doesn't matter now.








All my life, I've ruined what was most important to me.


































But the first thing I did this morning was come back to see how she was.



























His father was a writer, his reputation grew, and his mother was very beautiful and very smart.
They loved each other very much and were happy.



Time passed, and Iris became more beautiful every day.














And it turns out he's never gonna get better, and he's gonna need medical attention for the rest of his life.





Dad had the best care he could buy for money, and despite everything, he seemed happy.




Her husband was a nice man, but none of us paid much attention to him.


Then, one cold winter morning, the maid woke us up and said Daddy was dead.












Asked forgiveness for the bad relationship between us.












I bought her ice cream and the first time I saw her laugh.




































What's the rush? The banks will open in the morning.





























































What do you want?





























- Big trouble.


Good morning, Mr. Rappalo.
































































































































That's a nice thing to do.


















Marty, you need to get married, too.



"You don't know a nice girl for Marty?" What's the matter with you?

































That's why we need to take them somewhere first, you know?








Well, that's what you have to do on Saturday night.



























What's the matter, you need a stick, huh?










































Okay. Aunt Theresa, we wanted to ask you a very big favor. Well, yeah.
















I promise that if Katerina wants to, she can come and live with me and Marty. I don't mind. That's very nice of you, Aunt Teresa.
- Of course, I have to ask Marty.



How's Marty been lately, Aunt Teresa? Okay.





It's a big dance hall.













I said I don't mind, but I have to ask you.
Marty, she's an elderly, lonely woman. No one wants her. It's not sweet at home either.








I wanted to say thank you very much, because the situation has become very unbearable.










Marty, I have to run now, but let's meet you tomorrow.

- Yes, Thomas. I need an answer on Monday. - Yeah, sure.







- Thank you very much.


Just tell me it's an old friend.



Last time we met was at the Chester cinema.






























He called it a nice place.
- Ah, Thomas! It's just a big dance hall, that's all.

























I'm just a little skinny.
You ugly little fat boy. - You're not ugly.



I'm so sick without you. Okay.





- Isn't it bad here today?


And there, look, the little one is nice, just for you. - Where?
















It's just the first Saturday after a three-week break.




First Saturday weekend in three weeks and you bring me a crocodile.




























This is where I met my old friend and I need to get rid of this one.
I need someone to take her home, you know what I mean?

I'll introduce you as my old friend in the army, and then I'll leave.



















I've been paying a lot lately. I pay a lot, too.







I'm glad we met, and it's nice to meet you.



You're a very nice guy.








She's been sick, like everyone else at times, you know? And she says my dad always tried to understand her.
I remember sometimes when I was a kid, he was sitting in the living room, talking, talking.
I loved my old man, too, because he was so kind. It must have been the most beautiful thing in my life - my mom and dad.























Also, my hip and my right arm hurt. It hurts so much that I can't even sleep. It's a curse to be old.

They're in Florida, the big hotel. They're on their honeymoon.


Do you remember Emilio Georgio, the owner of the old tavern in Abruzzo? - He died.




Old Irish, always drunk.


I'm so happy to meet you, Katerina.





Mom, we'll go down to Capelans if you need anything. Okay?
I wake up in the morning.










Katerina, I think you need to move in with me and live in my house.





They don't want an old woman sitting on the balcony.


There's three of you in three tiny rooms, and there's a little kid.
You know that's not how it works when an old woman lives with her husband and wife.


Katerina, you don't have to do a tragedy. Come and live in my house.
You'll be much happier there. You know how much it hurts.

These are the worst years I've ever told you.
Katerina, you're the most expensive person to me.


Please come to my house. I know I can make you happy.

These are the worst years I've ever told you.

I'm already afraid to look at myself in the mirror. I'm afraid to see an old lady with gray hair like all those old ladies in the park-- little balls in black waiting for them to be put in a coffin.



Or am I an old dog who lies and dies until her eyes close?






































I'll be old.






I know something's wrong, because my room is on the ground floor. As usual, I open the door and there's Mr. Stern standing there.

























You know, you have a very nice face.
Really, it's a very nice face. Thank you.




You've ever tried to get into something from your knees the first time.










Going back to your old job for 40 cents an hour?



I walked the streets until three o'clock, four o'clock in the morning. My poor mom...









There's nothing wrong with you becoming a butcher.












It's a big enough loan. And it's gonna be hard.















But I have to go home.


I really have to go home.











Well, I met her outside and she was already pregnant for the last month.










- And her little husband, where does he work?













I was thinking about leaving the house, too. And here's what I said to myself: "Mom needs me."
But if it's sober, why would she want me? Nothing like that, she doesn't need me.

It's a big step to become independent.



That's how you can live a little girl your whole life.








It's gonna be great, I promise. You don't have to be so scared.





















She's a cute, attractive doll.





















My little brother Nikki got married last Sunday. It was very nice.




















Well... I'm old enough and I should have known right away.
It's gonna be New Year's Eve, and everyone's gonna have their own parties. I'm gonna have to find a couple.









I'd love to. I'd love to.
Now I can't say anything specific... because my Aunt Katherine is probably coming tomorrow morning.





What are you gonna do on New Year's Eve? Nothing.

























But now she's just an old woman sleeping on a couch in her sister-in-law's house.








But you have to have a house to clean up, you have to have kids to cook for someone.



I'm sure she wants to have a home to cook for the kids and clean up.








I just don't know these people. Mom, I need to take her home.

Sure. Good night.
I'm very pleased to meet you, and I hope to see you again.


- Good night, Mrs. Piletti.
Good night.




















I have to get up tomorrow at 10:00 a.m. and go to church. - All right, happy.










- Good night.
- Good night.







And I think we should buy a shop after all. What do you say?




Mom, I'm not coming home after church because I need to find Angie.



Now, please, come out, I need to get dressed.






For the first time in my life, I can hear my mom crying.

I know what you're gonna say. I need to stop being a mama's son.



Tommy, I love you and I know you're hurt right now. But we will never be happy without being able to live on our own.








It's okay, I need to get dressed now, I'm gonna go and drive my mom.




















Oh, you came with the little one, didn't you?













- You want me to buy new pots? Tommy... Tommy...











Interest will have to be paid: $60 - $70 a month. You're alone without any responsibility.




















This girl graduated from college. That's not good.



The first time Marty brought a girl home.


He's been like this all morning.




It's bad to be single."
Then he'll say to you, "Mom, why do we need this old house?"
"Why not sell this old house and move to a good neighborhood in town?"




In a few months, you're gonna be an old woman, sleeping on a couch in your sister-in-law's house.








I'm gonna have to change everything around here, cover it up with plaster. Mom, you know what you have to do?
We need to buy a nice apartment somewhere downtown, closer to South Boulevard. Any more decent neighborhood around town, do you think? - So, are you okay, Mom?









Of course it's not very pretty, but it looks like nothing.
I said she wasn't very pretty, she wasn't pretty.












You first see a girl and she comes to your empty house alone.




















Why, she's not so bad.







































Then he goes out with two beautiful twins and they put their eyes on him.
Then he comes to a beautiful lady from the highest world and she puts her eyes on him.















































































If we're going to New Year's Eve, I'm coming with her to this party. If you don't like her, fuck you!




















































































































Since this morning, with all your questions, I don't know what's going on.























It's an hour when the first lights are lit, an hour when the shiny and mysterious life of the capital begins, and you walk slowly through its streets... in the capital, where one day you too will have to take your place.











How beautiful this city is!





What's the point of going this far if you're not ready to go all the way to the end?


































It takes more courage to stay.















I needed to get to the bottom of the situation.











My first desire was to escape, to escape... I was afraid of what might happen to me...














In these reproductions, I always admire the fact that each, the smallest detail carries the author's hand, his writing style.









Did I say something that makes you cry?

















You don't need that at all, do you?








I have everything I need.


This morning you asked why men... prefer to talk to women on general subjects.



Beautiful.






Sin isn't that bad.



Is that necessary?



















It's weird, while I was listening to you, you suddenly seemed so old.




















We need to put a coat on you.
















Don't tell me your first lover wanted to be a journalist, too.






They shake on every occasion, but they're ready to grab the gun by hearing the word "win."








Beautiful!


Mademoiselle Racon will tell you who needs to be photographed.






















I have big plans for you.


















You have to be strong, you'll see for yourself... don't hesitate, don't hesitate, don't back off.







































It's amazing how many things a little notebook can tell...









Have you seen him lately?




































At first sight, it was obvious that one of her gestures would be enough to start over.























I hope we'll call you again soon with a new order.


Because this job is very important to me right now.






















You need to be brought by the pen, and then you're so surprised.








I've been up since 8:00 a.m.




- I don't know what kind of drinks to order.








How beautiful Paris was when we first opened it for ourselves!

It was so new!






















I never forget beautiful faces.












So you don't have to represent each other.





There's someone else I need to introduce to.


I need to ask you a few more questions.

























I've been up all day since 8:00 a.m.

He owes you all, but I'm so glad he finally found himself.





We're just in chapter one.













- You don't have to push.







































And I'm very happy about it.




It's nice here, isn't it?















Do you really have to rush there at this hour when everyone's having fun here?















See you later, sweetheart.














I need to get used to everything.


- I have to go.
































































To report that you're not coming back, and I should be happy that you've ever been with me?





































































Could you tell me who she's been seeing lately?

















































"Catherine, my dear Catherine,
"I was so happy to see you again on your last visit.

"We were happy again, just like those old days.





























Because you're trying to convince yourself that you need to come back!







































































Her baby's growing up without being raised. Need some help?





Run to your mom, sweetheart.




You teach Durga bad things.














You're condoning a child in a bad way, and I have to look people in the eye.








And this morning, I found out that Hori...




What a little boy!










Happy January: The boy was born and you have a job.













Touring theatres need new plays.
All writers only tell old stories in a new way.
If they're caught up in their essays, wouldn't mine be any worse? Yeah, sure.




We can eat twice a day and buy a new sari twice a year. After all, my ancestors were writers, and I will continue their tradition - that's how it's gonna be.














Nine little treasures.


































- Nobody cares about an old woman.









You haven't seen the money in three months. But it's only the first time.
And you're happy to let it go.
Durge's not feeling well right now. She needs medicine and more food.
Apu doesn't have enough clothes, he's running to school in his last legs.

















An old woman has to put lashes on a shawl. Durga, come here.







We gotta go through the big meadows, get the rice ass.



You're so small. The boys aren't teasing you?





Her poor upbringing has gone to extremes.





They disappeared this morning.
































I have so much to tell you.







They need to perform the ritual in a month.










The kids need new clothes, and the aunt needs a shawl.
























I didn't know you were such a beautiful wife back then.















You got a new shawl, Auntie?
It's beautiful!
What a beautiful shawl, Aunt!




















































I'm not feeling well these days.















I'm gonna stop by Bicephard on my way back. There's a big market in town, maybe there's work for me.




























Make me happy with my husband.










Durge's getting worse.




- Yeah, honey.












New sari for Durga.
There's nothing keeping us in this old house anymore.




I hope luck finds you in a new place.





























































Beautiful.





Good to see you.
We need order.
The one you're gonna replace has been weak lately.

















It's also very important.
















Not from the Balkans. It's a very good place to grow the culture we need.















It's worth a lot of money.



































I've got all the tables in the back of the room right now. There's a beautiful table.







- Good to see you. - Hey.















Do you know who you're replacing? Big Gerro.










We've got a little business next door. I'll see you at 9:00 p.m.














So he's the one who took the last batch out of the ambulance.



















































































- There's a little hook.


















The last time the middleman took 50 kilos from you. morphine?



- Do you need uncleaned goods?
Not peeled. - You don't need a morphine yet?
- No, not yet.
All I need right now is heroin.



I need the goods fast.
















Your two kilos are ready, one second.


I wouldn't drive any less.



































































































































































































I don't care. One thing I'm interested in is selling more goods...








The salesmen are even worse.
















Your bastard said salesmen aren't good.

















The American drug dealer, Big Rosillo, has been arrested.






















































































































































Paul sent us. He wants to know if you need anything now.

































































- Dinner's bad?




You won't have another gram.






































- Hello, darling.




































Go first, I'll follow you.





























You'd have to sell the goods cheaper and don't look for new customers.














You're so handsome, Henri.


You're very nice, but now you're out of shape, you better go home and get some sleep.


























On Asterisk Street, the first street to the right behind Montparnas.
































We need to replace Lea immediately.








- What's up, Daddy?






- You're a big man!























Go to bed, darling, I'll close it myself and come.





It's so bad...
Yeah, it's really bad.
We need you.




























































It's all very nice, but where do we hide?























































In America, he'd be a big shot... no doubt, only in South America.






















































I'm giving you one last chance.












































































We're ready to listen to you.






He looks at me like I'm the worst creature in the world.














I put on my new dress and walked out to him... and he grabbed my face... and started cleaning lipstick out of my mouth.
















Stop it, last warning!


















Happy Easter
Happy Easter



































I don't see anything wrong with having a little drink.


Don't buzz, darling.









He's just drunk, honey.



























It's a great way to behave!











That's nice.





It's bad that you don't want to talk.






































If he had at least stopped yelling at her, then one day... maybe she'd be happy and stop drinking him.





















It's okay, honey.











Jim, your eggs are on the table, darling.








On my first day at school, my mom fed me so much...
















- You don't have to be so unfriendly.


Life can be beautiful.

















- It's New Disease.














I'm so sorry. It's my first day here... and no one told me about it.











































I don't need friends.







Thank you very much.





































It's a big building.






















Are you always in the front row?


I don't want any trouble.










- I don't want any trouble.




































- We're gonna run chicken.








What happened to such a beautiful man?





























You're too old to kiss.





I didn't kiss her, and it matters to her.


You don't have to stand there, darling.






















She's gonna grow up, honey.










You need to go to one place... and do what you know will be very dangerous.

And you had to prove it.





















What do you have to do to become a man?




You're a great age.


I need an answer now.
I need an answer.




































You need to meet him.























You have to do something... don't you?

















And whoever jumps first is a coward.


















If you'd come in, we could talk... and have breakfast in the morning, just like my father did.



I'll see you in the morning, okay?



Hello, dear sister.
Hi, sweetheart, sweetheart.














You know the big duck next to Millertown?


























































































































Should we have a fight?



















Come back in the morning, okay?














- somewhere. I met him this morning.

The new blues rhythm of the old hit









I woke up this morning, you know?

And the first thing I saw was you.





I'm sorry for everything I said to you this morning.














It's an old, empty mansion... near the planetarium.



- What do you want?












We need your friend!





























He's home, darling.

















No, honey.




































Or maybe you want to buy it, darling?
It's up to you, darling.
















And you, darling?










- They're just told what to do.





























Then my mom said it was very expensive, and she went to Hawaii.

I don't know... but I'm happy now.





You said he was a big shot in New York.



















What kind of guys do you think girls want?


















Well, I'm happy.
Good morning.





































He needs us.
Only he needs you, not me.
He needs you, too.










You're only making yourself worse.








































































































Aren't you ready to go yet?














No, I need him.

























































































He was my oldest childhood friend.
From time to time, he had a new addiction.






We need to go to the village.










I was happy Carlo came to see us.




Mind you, we're dealing with supermen, we need to learn to keep quiet.


























I fought you because you needed workers, and you turned me down!
















We put them in an old wing and, I assure you, we don't even see them.















No, that doesn't count! I needed an answer!

Andrea, are you telling me that in that tone? - I've been waiting for you all morning.
















It's a matter of days, time, time for someone I know to come,






Andrea's a sweet boy, but he has to be more determined.








































I found a job in a small business when my brother was called up for military service.






Yeah, it's beautiful here.





















I'm sorry, but basically, he didn't say anything wrong.








Ready?






In the morning, I always go swimming in the river.






Isabella has never been so tender and fun and beautiful.

Isabella was beautiful today, wasn't she? - Yes.


























You're sending Ferruccio first to prepare the scene?










































- That's the worst of all, 4,000 bombs.






















I'll have to give her ten more drops tomorrow morning if I have to.












- Good night.



If you don't understand that, the worse it is for you.











I felt he was right, but I didn't want to put up with him first.







































- Same message. Nothing new.






Carlo, I need to go to Trescorp, get in touch with the others, keep you posted.












- Are you happy?
That's not the word, but, of course, I'm more happy than not.


Until new instructions come, I can't tell you anything.

- Isabella, darling, didn't you leave?





Oh, signor, I'm sorry, I really need you.














Big love?









The Countess received bad news from Milan.


They need to learn, and then they're bored here.









































- Is he really bad?


Tonight you can eat and rest as much as you need, of course.




We'll put it in my room. We need to get a doctor.




















He told me to talk to you if we needed him, and I assure you we really need him.































If the gentlemen help us, we can leave tomorrow, but we need to remove this uniform.










At least I'll arm myself with a stick. I won't be the first or the last.






There are two ways: the one spoken by the scavenger, and the one spoken by these two, you have to choose.










We don't have to act like this, or it'll be worse for everyone.




- But a wounded man needs him.




























Guys, we have a very important decision to make.


















I'm glad it happened because I've learned a lot.















The necessary measures must be taken immediately. - I've come to warn you.

We need to get to Trescore right away.





- Stay calm.
Then I'm gonna go now and wake up Scandelli, and we need to hurry.

We shouldn't have let him go.



Andrea, I need to talk to you for the last time, listen to me.



Yeah, I went to the village to hear the latest news.
Maybe you went to give them the latest news.








We need to get rid of him.




















- They're great to me!
























































































































- Daddy needs to make money.



Honey, you promised to eat properly and not smoke. Dr. Murphy told you not to.
























Even old and boring classics.






























- Don't give up.
























He shot Mr. Brady and forcibly owned Miss Morris and then set fire to 300,000 copies of Little Lady.





























It's a very quiet house.









After all, we're all a big family.


















Charlie... big green dragon.











It's true, darling. Beautiful women. As long as you want.










There's six mistakes here, just in the first paragraph.












I need you so much, I want you...













That cute gray old lady?






















































- And a little knucklehead. - Richard!













































Good night, darling.






















I'm really glad you didn't get hurt.







If you're not doing anything more important right now.










I really need to, Dr. Murphy.



Ah, how beautiful they are, these harmful mestizos and resins.









I'm gonna need some privacy.




The first night without Helen, I bring a woman to the apartment.





I'm a wonderful family man.










Good old Rachmaninov.



I'm so glad.



















Just a minute, darling.












Why don't you pick them up tomorrow morning when I go to work?

I have to take my wife and the kids to the train station tomorrow morning.




I need a shave, a haircut, a manicure, everything.






























So small, silver.











You've got a nice one.





















Big, like that.
Big martini.















Big martini.























First summer in New York, and the heat just kills me.












I explained the situation to him, and he was so sweet despite Sunday.


























I should have come by 1:00 in the morning.

I was so happy when they kicked me out, basically.



What's wrong with posing?






















My kiss is just as sweet... " with the new Duzzledent."








I'm not that old myself.












































Everything's just fine.




I'll send it tomorrow morning.




















































I mean, just one, little...































It's worse than living in a club.


















You look like a big Rachmaninov fan.

























It was a bad idea.

















It was taken early this morning.























































You're very sweet.
Honey!
You're not cute.







One morning you'll look in the mirror and that's it.

- Good morning, Mr. Sherman.
- Good morning, Miss Morris.


- I need to talk to him.













There are things more important than money.
I need two weeks of vacation, to go to my wife and son's village.









I drank bourbon, smoked cigars, played poker till morning.











Look, all I need from you is a publishing plan.

































I'm glad to inform you that we're making a big commercial for her.


































Actually, it's not that bad.



















































You have to learn to walk before you run.

I have a big problem.










Big twat.
















But he's never gonna recognize my kiss as sweet with the new Duzzledent.
Now, taking this opportunity to warn all the girls in New York, there's a violent, dangerous, married man who lives on the ground floor in my house.

















I need Ogankuit, Maine.








I need Mrs. Sherman.













I'll send him out tomorrow morning, first thing.




You don't need me anymore?





Life can be beautiful, Miss Morris.


























This last book is his!



















Oh, honey!




















I think he just needed sympathy.
It feels like he's loved and needs someone.







I have a big day tomorrow.

What's the big day?









It's worth a little more, but 8 out of 10 dentists...





















It doesn't matter to me how much it costs even if I have to lay down my own kids. I'll tell you that, in the summer of New York, I have to buy an air conditioner.



















And if they don't take it, we're gonna have to pay another $3 for a bigger one.















He's such a nice man.












It's not that I'm against it, it's just that we don't have to rush it.





I have to look good in the morning.














And if anyone sees you leaving my apartment at 8:00 in the morning...



Even worse.








Walking with the lady... the one with the big, fat poodle.







Come tomorrow morning when I'm having breakfast.


























Actually, I'm really glad you stopped by.



Yeah, from a little silver shaker.


And I apologize to you, dear lady.











I was in over my head carrying that big fat poodle.

















I need to send the paddle.

Wrap up the paddle and send it in the morning.
Ricky needs it.



I'm gonna need a piece of paper in the shape of a saddle.








That's right, the old papers!
That's the old papers.









I need to take a shower.

Please, lady, get up. Go home, I have to go to work.





She probably really needs the money.
Of course he lives in an expensive apartment...














Hello, good morning!


We need to get her some clean towels.






























































- I need a cigarette.




I told you, I had to sleep on the couch.











































- That's not good.


























- Good morning, Dickie-baby.





I'm glad I caught you.
We need to discuss an important family matter.





That's very nice of her because I need to talk to you.





























Drink to a pig's insane state at 8:30 a.m.!

Look, Helen doesn't need any divorce!
All she needs is Ricky's paddle!












Breakfast's ready.





















































































































The forces of the enemy were great.























































Your first military march was a hard test.































































































































And they're happy!






They're happy in their own way.
















Come to me, it's a lot quieter.




It's very rare in our parts!




You need my intervention to make money.
































































































































What else is there to be happy about?




















If I've offended you, I'm willing to apologize.




























It has no legal force for you, Mr. First Minister.













The First Minister shouldn't worry about such trifling things.

















































































Why such an expensive gift?














Your crew is ready, master!



















Are you ready?


Your father's still out there in the big hall.

Madame of the Giong Quarter, you are beautiful!


You must be very pleased with Tadamori's promotion.




Your invitation gives me great honor.
Bring with you young and beautiful dancers!
That's what you need me for!












The custom requires the samurai's son to share the last moments of his life with his father.



I'm willing to take full responsibility for his behavior!




























































This house is too old to rebuild.
Now that you're married, you need a new mansion.



I want to live here for the last few years.

Think about the future and build the house you need.















































Tadamori is ready to sacrifice himself to Your Majesty.





















I'm ready to put an end to this argument.































The first line is written by them:







When Tadamori died, he wanted to give you this last message.









































Kiomori, are you ready to hand over these criminals to us?
































It was her first profession.


























Two years after his first wife died.



























































Anna, darling?























- She's very beautiful.





















I'm glad you decided to celebrate your exam.































- Mr., she wishes you a good night.










Because you're both young and I'm old.

- Terrible old.








- I was a happy housewife.
- And made me happy.

















Good night.






She's old anyway.
Good night.


"Not only indecent acts are vile virtues," but, even more so, shameless thoughts and fantasies."







- He's an old cynic!
I think he's cute.





You're like a doll, sweet Henrik.






The old asshole, the camel is long-standing.


What's whining in your big breast?










For the last three years, all 29 years are nothing to a lady my age.












The old bastard turned into a tender shepherd.










When I go home, she's really happy to see me.


There's so much life in it that my old house settles on the walls of cracks.












For our old friendship.






















You're also beautiful and welcome.









Tell me, is this Mr. handsome? Does he deserve attention?






The skin in the scars, nobody wants it.







Let's be happy, now!





Aren't you beautiful?







































Let me say good night to everyone, and I'll say no.


































Calm, reliable?

I was a nice partner and a nice thing to show you.







But you were more important than all of them.



Why do you have to remember the bad things?
































- Honey, we're not in the theater.




I'm so glad, dear Carl-Magnus.














I'm glad for you.

We're old friends.


Not tight? Isn't it too big?

It's not tight and... it's not too big.





And I openly admit that I can't stand cats and so-called old dogs.











I'm gonna get into that old lady's picture.
















I'm happy to lend you this nightgown, so you can get home in it.







- Have a good trip.


How sweet...





- Good morning, Mom.

What would make my daughter come here at 7:00 a.m....





- Better or worse?









That's an interesting topic for you, at least, my lovely girl.























































- Are we having an important conversation?
- What's important to you?






















































Good morning, son.









- Good morning, Petra.
- Good morning, sir.

- What's wrong with that?

















It was so sweet and funny that I almost died.
















I'm well built, Petra, as well as you.






Good morning, Beata.






They were drunk at 7:00 a.m.







- Some nasty old robe!














That's cute!





















- I don't understand, darling...













That's cute!



























I'm glad you know everything and I didn't upset you.






- Good morning, Countess.
That's cute!


















Your kids are very beautiful, especially a little girl.














Then I'm the one you need. I'm the man of the future.











The king had a minister, and the minister had a very beautiful wife.













You're a little brat. Do you know that?

Look who this beautiful lady is.




Nice to meet you.















- Are you ready to speak frankly?




































- First thing to do is put the guests at the table...
Dear Karp Magnus, do you really think anyone can be seduced?




































































We thought the first act would be the hardest.
But the next one will require more sophistication.




































I love you at first sight.



This is the first one, from midnight to dawn, when the lovers open each other's hearts and loins.





Sweet girl... I'll comfort you.
















































































































I'll stay faithful until the big song separates us.







































There is no better life than this!











































- And now we're the first suspects.











































In old time's memory, maybe I can help you.










And I thought, "You have something to do with the new Cat."
"Maybe you're the new Cat."







































































































- We're scared of the most important things. - Insurance?









- Dear Mr. Ruby...









It's nice to meet an insurance agent willing to pay that amount.











- What kind of customers do you want? - Half a dozen of the richest.









Let go of me, you old witch!














But in 10 days, I need to prove my innocence.




















































You don't have to prove your innocence every day. And I do.













Let's see... Mrs Stevens' first bait. An American woman with diamonds and a daughter.




















































We had a ranch, not very big.

















- She's very beautiful.





You know, Mr. Hugson, no matter how beautiful they are,



That's very nice of you.

































They're beautiful, and thanks to them, my daughter isn't shy of me walking out into the light. At least not too much.
- Good morning, Mr. Hugson.
- Good morning. - Mr. Burns.





































It just takes a little bit of luck.


Your old Resistance friends at the restaurant scolded the police when you were released yesterday.



But they'd be happy if you were caught in the next robbery.








He texted me this morning.












Why buy an old car if the new one is cheaper?

I think my old car's gone.










We talked like old friends!
















Mr. Burns, you still haven't told me how French women are cuter than American women.


































I thought all they wanted was my money.






- Is that good or bad? - Okay, very good.






















But you need to open it yourself.





























You charmed her. A big, strong lumberjack from America.




- Fire must be fought with fire.










And I don't have the time or the will to give you what you need.




















What a beautiful day!
Have you ever seen a more beautiful place?











- The first thing I noticed...



















When I read about... you in the paper - a little note, but I didn't miss it - I was sure you wouldn't miss your mom.



























You're a very nice girl, but you have too much imagination.











- The cat has a new cat.









That's what the robber needs.











I didn't know your new name. That's what I figured.

I serve food and drinks for a big meal.



There's gonna be a lot of women with expensive stones.







Who's this beautiful American girl?















You don't have to drink on a night like this.





You climb the roof along the wall to the right room... and the window is closed.







Aren't you gonna cut the glass, break it with your fist to get what you need to know that it's here and wait for you? - Come on.












In a week's time, the Sanfords will have a big ball.



































I'd be happy if you didn't find anything.




Otherwise, I wouldn't be so calm.































































You're angry that he's the first man who didn't throw himself at your feet.

You need to be whipped and taken back to school.














- I need your help.
- I need yours more.

























But if Cat doesn't show up, the police can grab you and it's gonna get worse.












































I'm gonna go to the funeral, and I'm gonna pay my last tribute.

































You're gonna make a big mistake if you don't marry her and come back home.



























































- My nerves need a drink.


It's a pleasure to serve you.











I'd love to.










Thank you, darling.






































I'm in bad shape.

















That you need the help of a good woman.


I needed a woman's help.
























































Do as you see fit, Captain.









I'm glad I met you today.


I'm very glad I could help you, Captain.































Sleeping deep, strong, calm sleep.





And I'm gonna sleep in a deep, calm sleep, too, Mom?


- Doesn't matter.










I'll wait for the whole world to come and give him his last honor.












Let me see the new one.

















Why does your son always have to deal with these old cars?

You don't make much, but you need money.



Mr. Marlowe, she's beautiful.



I don't understand anything, but I think it's beautiful.



Is that the cute woman with the little boy?







I'm gonna go get whatever you need.











What's wrong with people shooting from time to time?











- I asked you what kind of bacon you want.



What a beautiful day it is.
Yesterday was as good as last night, but you didn't say anything about it.















































- Why do you care about the size of your finger?






Oh, you old social lion...
Old?















































When I got out of the house this morning, I saw a stinking owl of drunken raspberry, full of fucking pottery.
























No one wants him now.










I can't wait for people to think about him.


- She was so happy.
















No one else is capable.




If you, painter, suspect the worst, then what should the cops think?









- It's very useful.






I have to go home and change.



Sam, she could have done a lot worse.





Do you realize that you're gonna be the first man to step past her doorstep?













You're beautiful, you're adorable.
You're the most beautiful, most beautiful woman I've ever seen.


You're incredibly beautiful, and I'd like to draw you naked.







- So this case isn't that important.




Not only are you beautiful, but you are also delicate.























I didn't know you had such a beautiful mom, Arnie.
If you think she's beautiful, I can show you my horn.






















































I'd like to know more about you, if you don't mind.





































So you didn't know the first time?









I didn't have any real feelings for Harry, so I managed to get on with it because I thought he loved me.










You sat by the window because there was a full moon, and you tried to set yourself on the right track.




- Called the next morning.
- The next morning?


- Bad?


It said, "Don't start new projects this day."


















He knocked on my door this morning.

- What did he want?
- I am! He needed me because I'm his wife.
He needed me because, suddenly, he felt some kind of drive...




















Yeah, yeah, you know how to make a man feel right.







































Beautiful.
And you... you're a very nice woman.
You're a very nice man, too, Captain Wyles.

















We need to find out where the ground is softer.

The place must be cozy and pretty enough.







































- They have small carcasses.









She's gonna make a beautiful widow. Very nice.







This afternoon at Mrs. Wiggs' store, I created a new image for her.




I made her new makeup and haircut.

She's a very nice lady.
- Very nice.
- We're all cute.
I can't imagine anyone not loving cute guys like us.





























































































Like, "a nice day, isn't it?"













There's an old sailor on the anchor.
The house is small, not like your palace, but cozy, very...











































































I'm just glad. I'm sure.























You have a very beautiful house, Jennifer.

























- I'm trying to explain it to her, it's not necessary.



























But since you've already done that, you can do what you think is right.








He's near the big oak.

























You're very beautiful in the light of the moon.




- It used to be a big road.













- Viggy, what do you want from me? - I...
































Besides, it's too expensive for you.



















- Who smells the worst.




























I'll come back in the morning and get all the paintings.


I'll have new jobs in a month.








It's very important to me that you think that.























I always knew they were worth less than the seats.



















- It's a new one.




























Marrying is a great way to resuscitate, but right now we need to come up with a good story that will convince the state police if they show up here.











- Congratulations, darling.

- I think you'll both be very happy.


















Sammy, I'm willing to do anything to help you, but please don't make me dig up Harry again!






















I'll dig it up, but we need to do it before Calvin Wiggs gets the state police here.




















That needs to be explained, too.






Sam, I don't want to stand here and argue until morning.


















In that case, we can take him to a place where there'll be more light.
Okay, but I need tools.


Last road to the house.
I hope it's the last one.
















When you iron your shirt, everything will be ready.





























































I don't know much about art, but I can recognize the dead man's face at first sight. That's the body's face.





- I don't need to draw from nature.




















- The National Guard will be here in the morning.



































I'll tell you, you're the most beautiful tugboat captain ever to swim on the East River.



















































It's the first nightmare in 25 years!



























I want this world. I'm approaching your prisoner from a distance of millions of light years.

I want your world.

I, the great mind without flesh or blood, need your world.












A big and cruel world, frozen, dry, deadly,















Sometimes when I see her, she's so young and beautiful, with the best years ahead, the years I've missed.





























I have to flood the northern grove this morning.






















































But there are so many new models right now.
All I know is that my glassware and beautiful windows are broken.














- Good morning, Ben.

Ben, isn't it too early to milk old Sarah?
















You said you flew this morning?















What's the matter, darling?





















He thinks it's a big joke, but he's checking.



Lunch will be ready in a minute.

















All your beautiful porcelain, your glasses.













































I won't forget, darling.
















You're happy with the new dress, aren't you?




Close the door behind me, sweetheart.


Turn on the lights, sweetheart.




















Leave the bags in the kitchen, darling.















































I know, darling.



We need to stick together, Allan.








Dinner's ready.







- It's almost done, Allan.
- I'll look for her, honey.






- Where have you been, sweetheart?









Honey, that sound, that buzzing noise, it sounded like a plane this morning?







I'm so sorry about this this morning, Dad.
Never mind, sweetheart.






- Good night, everyone.
- Good night, darling.





Good night.
- Good night.














Sarah, I hope you feel better this morning.









- Can I help you, sweetheart?
- No, honey.

Good morning, ladies.















Sometimes a person needs a few attempts to evaluate...

- What, honey?
- Something very important.
Something that I needed all these bad years and that I forgot.







Sweetie, could you get me some more stabbing?




The last 24 hours have been tense.






You need to finish the job.

Honey, stop by on the way to Ben Webber.
He didn't call this morning.

I'll stay with him on the way home, darling.



Thank you, sweetheart.


This is the first time Allan's ever letting him do that.
























I wonder how old Sarah got here.






- Oh, that old lady?




It's okay now, honey.







I need him personally.

















- He didn't want to be rude, darling.











Like there's more at stake?


























That's enough, sweetheart.










She's trying on her new dress.


We need help, and hurry!







There was one big bird, I think, a crow...



I think a big bird, a crow, led them.



































Good night.
He's beautiful, Mom.



You told him to be by 6:00, honey.









Well, what do you want?




You two are honored.







We need to do something!






















































































































We have to remember that we're together.
















That thing was in charge of him until the last minute.



















- No, honey.
















So we were forced to look for new worlds, a new life.

Those who come back will choose our new food source.











Even the man I was able to control completely challenged me at the last moment, and he was sick.








I had to look after him.































My spaceship, as you call it, starts at the first hour after dawn.




He was so cold until the last moment.









































I think he had to move in some form to control the ship.

That was the last survivor.
No wonder they were looking for a new world.


It can't exist in anything but a new body.





















































Mr., aren't you happy to see us? No, we're happy to see you.










































Hey, honey, look how great this dress looks on me.























Come over here, I need to tell you something.












Important business.








There are now seven people in this room who will soon be the beginning of a new civilization.

































































But I need meat.







Tomorrow morning is his anniversary.















A monster born in our new atomic world.









No, we really need him to stay alive.















































Good morning.


















Tomorrow morning, it could get ugly.
For the last 64 years, I've bathed in it all the time, at least twice a month.









I don't think he's got anything wrong with his mind!


















This isn't his last prey, it's followed by the next one.










Oh, Ruby, thank you very much.
















You old liar, I know what you're doing with sugar!



Beautiful.




















Are you ready to get close to me, Ruby?













But that's not what matters to me, baby, are you with me?


Everything everyone knows about it. Nothing more. I don't know.


I was the first person to see all this.





















It's a new species...








We'll talk about it tomorrow morning.

Tomorrow morning, I'll have something to say to our girls.





Honey, is everything okay with you?










My baby, I want you to be happy.




















































What stage are we at first?
Radek is in phase one.















I'm really glad you're here.


























































































































It's like a little baby crying.


















He'll be first on my list.












- It's okay. - Honey, you're gonna be okay.





































You should have died first!

We'd have little kids.

Have a safe journey, sweetheart.




Maybe it'll be over by morning. I'm very tired now.







Rick, were you ready to kill him?
You should kill him first. Take my gun.






It reminds me of a song about ten little niggers.



Three little niggers...
Two little... one... not one."




































We need to find the answer to how we can kill him.


























You don't need a gun anymore.








I'm only willing to help on certain terms.























What a beautiful rain.



















All the worse for him.



































Louise, are you ready to go?

















Farewell, all ills! Happy people are waiting for years.












But if there is no other joy for me in the world, how to oppress, to command, to reign over those who are more beautiful than me,




Well, I can kill with a smile, yell, "I'm glad!" - when there's grief in the heart. And moisturize the tear of the fake cheek and accept any expression.





But first thing I'm gonna do is marry Lady Anne.


He was handsome, and wise, and young, and brave. There's no such thing in the whole world.
































She's mine! But it won't take long.










Here, and it's a pleasure to serve you.


What did I do wrong, dear brother?
























We're not safe here, sweet Clarence.





























Oh, honey, your eyes are poison to me.










































Your pain makes him sicker.




God blessed you with a beautiful son, who will comfort you at the death of the king.










I swear to God, that's the second night I wouldn't buy a world of happy days.














The skinny soul first met my famous father-in-law, the great Warwick, and cried out to me, "What punishment, Clarence, is an oath of sin waiting in the black kingdom?"
















Oh, good Beckingham, it's good to see you!










Ever since our brother brought the beggars into the know, her jealous old queen, two gossip girls, all power belongs to her.
















Good to see you, Your Grace!

It's good to see you back on the loose.









What's new in the world?
























Our brother's in prison because of you, I'm not honored to know all about him. And on the one who was happy for nothing, now, like hail, the rewards fall.











She will dare to marry the king, handsome and young.


















































There is no need for a talker in such cases;





What do you want, how did you get here?
We need Clarence, we got two of our own.



















































I beg you first, Queen, for the mercy that I deserve to serve.

















The poor man died on first order. The order of that messenger was covered up;





Who told me that in the Tukesbury field, when Oxford beat me, he came to my aid and said, "Live, my dear brother; be king"?










Can I drown the world with tears about my sweet husband, about my Edward?


























Honey, I'm gonna figure out how to get us and the prince away from the Queen's arrogant relatives.

Cousin my dear, I'm like a child, ready to go wherever you take me.










I've heard that Uncle Gloucester grew up so fast that two hours after he was born, the crabs were eating, and when I was two years old, I only had my first tooth punctured.





































Prince, your purity and youth prevent you from understanding the world's lies.
























It's the one who's wrong, or the one who's looking for a defense, and the Duke doesn't need a safe haven.














To me, there's no such thing as a Tower.










It's that if I grow up to be a big, old-fashioned owner of France, or I die a warrior and a glorious king.





Beautiful, my lord. That's what you should be called.







Oh, my dear cousin, I won't say that.



The dagger, my little cousin?


I won't regret any more for you.
Ah, more? Will you give me the sword?








The prince laughs at us, dear uncle, he thinks you can walk on my back with me like a monkey.

How nice he laughs at himself!





























I'm ready to serve you.













































This fate will be met today by Rivers, Vogen, Grey, and tomorrow by others who are calm for themselves, like you and me, and are as close to the protector and Lord Bekingham as we are.











'Cause if I didn't talk about the power, I wouldn't be so happy!


It's morning.
- Well, I'm ready.
My Lord, I am happy to see your Grace.

I owe you one last favor;


He is needed by your friends in Pomphret;










Is everything ready?
It's done, but we don't know the day.
I think it's a happy day tomorrow.



















I saw a beautiful strawberry in your garden in Holborn.










But tomorrow I think it's too early. I'm not ready, and I'd be happy to postpone.























I need a priest.

































He said that people weren't used to talking like this, that there's a caller here.



















Go back, Ketsby, to the Duke; tell him that I, Lord Mayor, as well as the citizens with intent to be serious, at an hour of importance, have come to speak to the Duke.




















My Lord, there's no need for excuses like that.























- Oh, don't fight, my dear Beckingham.


































You must run to Richmond in Brittany, where he gathers a great army,








You old stone, pity the little one you've hidden in your walls, the envious!













Little Edward is alive.








































My lord, the last order you gave me, I thought about it.





























































Tell him the Queen is happy to marry Elizabeth's daughter.





My lord! What's going on? With bad or good news?
Bad, my lord:





















































My lord, the county of Kent has risen, and to the Gildfords, new friends will grow; their strength will grow every hour.












This good news, but it's worse;



































Prepare your troops for battle early in the morning.











Yes, sir, everything is ready for you.
























Even though I'm worried, I'm gonna go to sleep, or I'm gonna get knocked down by a dream of lead when I need a winning wing.





















Twice the roosters welcomed the morning with a loud scream.



























































































































Well, I have to go home and see my family.




































Singing a leopard coil with a weight of 750 pounds of tuna from Nova Scotia.

























































































Calm down, darling.



















I need to think.


























































































I need that key.




















































She needs help.





























































With the sunset of the cold sun of New England... slowly fading behind the coroner's office... we walk away from the mystery, away from the Sheridan Fall... of this wonderful area.
And while the night breeze takes our raft away from the beautiful forested coasts, we slowly turn our attention to the beauty of the television commercial... and our sponsor's melody song... after which I will return.





And today I present to you the first story in a series of... tense and mysterious stories called quite unusual...



Today's episode is a very nice little story.



I see the actors won't be ready for another minute.


Breakfast's ready.


I don't know how long it's gonna take to get to the factory... and I don't want to be late for the first day.



Listen, honey, I have to go to work.









The last three days have been great.









Anyway, so is everything. Nice neighbors.

However, I'm afraid they took you away from the rest of the world, sweetheart.

You'd think your world was more tangible than mine... just mine is more beautiful.

And there's something that gets into mine, making it more beautiful when I'm with you.
And what are you going to do all day... in this lovely imaginary world?












Good morning, Mr. Spann.
Good morning, Mrs Fergusen.



That would be very nice of you.





And I'm sure she'd be happy if you came in.



































I'd love to, but I need to watch the pie.
























What, honey?









Tell me, sweetheart?













Don't worry, honey.























Do you still need us?

























And now it's a new shock...



















I'll come by in the morning.






















We need to talk to her as soon as possible.





















That would be great.





Yes. That would be great.















More calm and handsome.

Yes. That would be great.







Well, they were a nice couple.


















































































You need to go to school.































































They made a big noise. Miyazaki-san, this place is owned by the fourth generation.







You don't have to be so suspicious.

















Since the counselor's wife is scheduled to visit, you must see her honor. Settle down.


























My brother is sick, I have to visit him... in Ogikubo.
















Yat-chan, everything's ready for your new house.










Honey, are you staying the night?

We gotta get to work.































You need to be careful, too.






































I want to buy him a costume for New Year's Eve.
I'm so glad!






















Baby, don't bother your dad so much.




























We'd be glad we didn't do something like that.



New Year's is the end of everything.


























I need to tell you something important.
You've probably heard of the new law.












You don't have to commit suicide with your family. We pay for a job the government doesn't notice.




What's wrong with selling your own body?



























It's the first time I've heard of it.



If he's so important to you, put a leash on him.
























So if you leave, you don't have to give anything.












I'm very happy for you...

I'm so happy for you.





















Beautiful cups!



How happy I was to have such a wedding present.


This is the happiest day of my life.


I was happy too.


















































They didn't do anything wrong.










Yasumi-chan, as always, first.





























Very beautiful.













I'm so glad.



















I shouldn't have counted on you.



















He needs a bat.
I don't have to pay like an employee.


When I got to bed, he said I was worse than a maid.




Worked from morning to night, and even one kimono is missing.

It's hard to break up with old habits.
































You'll find out the bad news quickly.













































You're worried about gossip, even though you were the first to make a point.











Last word of debauchery!






















We need to talk.










Happy...

I'm so glad.


I'm really glad you decided to work.

























































Aren't you happy at all? I've got a lot of money...














You won't be happy marrying me.



















Then give it back! They're worth my life!
They're important to me, too. Just give it to me if you love me so much.























This has to be celebrated!



Mickey, you need money, just say it.















What a lovely bouquet you sent.


Big success.
We need to show the reformers.






She has to get a lot of attention on her first day.



























Wear beautiful things and make a good living.

Do you know what you have to do?























From the images of the very first missile.






















- Good morning, sir.
- Good morning, Orndike.











In my pam, I'm the first time in 40 years.






























And how many servants has he replaced in the last six months?



























































Yeah, new notes.






























Yeah, the world's big enough.















And anyway, I'm willing to bet a thousand pounds on it.

Yes, sir, and I'm ready to confirm my determination by writing you a check now.





I'm willing to put them either partially or completely on the same terms as I am.











- You don't need a few days to get things together. - I don't know.
No, I'm ready.
Are you ready to argue that you're going back to London in the lub Eform on Saturday, 21 September I'm without a quarter of the nine of you tonight?































































Who's the first?
































If no one wants the paper, I'll put it on the table.




























But my host, I'm a big fan of corrida, which is why he paid a visit here.


































































































Don't talk to me, tell me more about Indian women.



We'll be in Bombay by morning, Mr. 'ogg.

It's a new record!














Or say I'm ready to share.
































































That's not good.


















In Piligi's pagoda, two miles from here.








And now I'm a woman. I'm very beautiful. She went to England.


Okay, first thing to do is scout.















































Are you serious? I'm glad.




























He thinks of him morning, day and night.














We'll come to G Oncong tomorrow afternoon, and at 8:00 a.m. the next day, he'll sail off on an artifact.

- I'll give you the last farting.

































And ri cabins on an artifact." In the morning, he leaves for the... Okagama.




Can't be? My old T-T-T-T-T-E-E-L.






















I mean, there's a lovely lemon sherbet here.









































What do you want from me?


I mean, what I need is a very small, friendly favor.





































My dear, I understand that an artifact's not gonna come back.



There must be something in such a big port...

- Good morning, Mr. 'ogg.



























That's Foozy, I'm Ma. We'll be in the... window in the morning.







It's a new science, I'm the one I'm arming with the British police, Mr. Hx.
Really? - You always learn something new, Mr. 'ogg.







And Général Grant is ready to sail, I can't take a minute.










I thought the English were calm, dreamy people.

































When I was six in the morning, according to our New York office, a merchant ship called G Henrietta.














In this case, we put the last coal in the top of this old wreck.











And now, as the new owner, I'm giving the first team.













That's what you do, and I've got better things to do.




























Maybe it's not as bad as I look.



























































































Yeah, I'm the old traitor.














































You deserve more than just a fee.

I'm glad you're happy.










That's very kind of you, Mr. Ramsey.














That's a very nice gesture.













I've been told so often, "You're so attractive, honey, and so, and so, and so."











And first of all, I hate that kind of music.

















































Last booth, madam.







































I'm tired and my leg hurts, but that's not why I'm happy to sit here.
I'm glad because I think it's nice to talk to you.



























If you drop it, no matter where, you'll always know it's yours.

























Besides, we don't have to leave, do we?













You know, people don't understand how important it is to talk to someone who listens.


















Nope. An immigrant from New England.










Honestly, I think our relationship will last longer if you pay the bill for the first time.





Maybe it's New England's legacy, so I'm very economical.








Hey, this is nice.

- I'm glad you had a great time.
























I can't, I have to work.


Yeah, that's very nice.

















Well, that's too bad.



Nice suit.


I'm glad there's not a lot of people here today.





I was the first woman to swim in and out of La Manche.















Good night.











- If you knew a girl your age, you wouldn't need me.























Good night, Liz.
Good night, Millie.
See you in the morning.












I'm glad she wasn't locked.










Strange how this beautiful song reminds me of chicken salad.
















Well, what's new with you?

















But with the new job, you won't be alone anymore.


















Was it that bad?
Worse. She's an addict in chewing gum.






















I'm not that old!



Just celebrate my new job.








The new thing is caviar and popcorn.











Look, Millie. I need to say something important here and now.













Burt, look... you've been gone for a month, nothing's changed... I'm a month older, you're not that important either.





Don't be, darling.
















You don't have to answer.


































They're beautiful.














I'm glad I caught you.
















I'm willing to suffocate for pulling the blanket off me, making it cold.
I look at you every morning, and I realize there's a reason not to go to work.













I don't have to pay for them now.
















The last part?





Goodbye, sweetheart.


I'd be happy to tell you about it.







It's very important, I'm looking for Burt.

























































































You just tell me, and I'm ready to help you and try to save Burt.


















That's why I'm glad you said it was all in the past.

Does it matter?

You want an excuse for him?












That's his last profile.



























Millie, darling, Hanson's home!


I stopped at Wilshire's new delicacies.








There was no time for a beautiful package.











Beautiful!














No matter what you think of me, I love you and I will never hurt you.
Burt, why do you have to pretend?











Everything needs to go back-- portable bar, radio.



I'll take them back in the morning.

















It's too important for you to forget it!



Nothing else matters.






I'm glad, I'm sure it's true.



Let me decide what's important.





She was my first girlfriend, that's all. I told you that once.




I needed money for the apartment.





Millie, because it doesn't matter. Our house wasn't real, it was puppet.





It just doesn't matter, Millie.

































But, darling, why did you tell me your father died?


















Oh, darling!






























Burt, honey, are you ready?
Honey?
I said, are you ready?


We need some fresh air.
Come on, honey, you haven't left the house in days.


What do you want?





















































































































Thank you, Doctor, but I have work to do.

He's... very sick.








Good night, Doctor.
Good night, Mrs Hanson.














I don't remember the last time we did that.


























I'll show you the way, darling.

I'll help you, darling.
You're gonna be okay, honey!


















If you leave, you ignore her, it'll only get worse.





What he needs is medical care.






It takes a lot of love and forgiveness to put a person in a specialized institution.















The treatment course in a good sanatorium is not always continued but be prepared for his absence for 5 to 6 months.
I know I upset you, but it doesn't matter, does it?












Patients separated from reality become adapted to life and develop new emotional values that allow them to live again.
















Or bring him back to a normal, happy life, even if you might lose him?








Honey, I want you to remember one thing, please, remember it. I love you from the bottom of my heart.









Trust me, darling.














The treatment course in a good sanatorium is not always continued but be prepared for his absence for 5 to 6 months.



































"Hello, Burt, darling.












I need help, too.












I need her to protect me from the views of curious patients.










What, new lunatics come along?



With silver bells, beautiful shells, and cute nurses.










It wasn't very good to be sent to a hospital, no matter why.


And, Burt, don't worry... the most important thing is that you're healthy.










People have to grow up and be happy like adults.




















- Okay, darling.


What a beautiful play.










Monica, how sweet.
Yeah, it's me, your insane mistress upstairs, darling... came to say goodbye.










I'm not ready to turn into a bunch of ashes yet.

















You're so big and strong.









- Good morning, Sergeant.
- Good morning, Mrs. Penmark.

Honey, when you meet your dad in Washington... will you get him to come visit me?








Bye, darling.


The sunglasses... to protect these beautiful blue eyes from the sun... and the balls... for a worthy frame.



- Here, honey.
















It's not like these raised little animals... who have to have a psychoanalytic session... so they can pick out a milkshake.
Darling, dear Aunt Monica!


Aren't you afraid of getting dirty... or tripping and ruining new shoes?




You're saying the jeans aren't feminine enough, are they?















Good morning, Mrs. Penmark.








Good morning, Miss Knucklehead.


We're on our way, honey.








They're very nice.










I told you, honey. Just try to forget.




































It's too beautiful a morning for such a tyrant.







Goodbye, darling.
Have a lovely, happy day.




Old cow, one hoove at the slaughterhouse.



Smart little girl.









- Good morning, Miss Fern.
- Good morning, Miss Fern.
- Good morning, Rhoda.










I got a check for the last quarter.





























Part Two, "Love"... Romantic, eternal... and Part One, "Breed *"..........................................................................................



When I explained it to Mr. Breedlav, he was so confused... the difference between the first and second components... that he just gave up.


Yes, please, Reggie, tell me about your last job.


















Maybe if you tell me the first thing that comes into your head, we'll get to the root of the problem.
Just tell me, no matter how stupid it sounds.



Just say the first thing that comes to mind... it's gonna be an association.









At that moment, I thought... that apart from Kenneth, my father was my most precious man... in the whole world.

































That's who's really lucky... that's the girl you wrote your first book about.




She was beautiful, smart... and yet ruthless, she never used the same poison twice.












We'll listen to the weather for tomorrow... and if the water stays quiet, it's one of the most important events of recent times... in the international arena.




For an important announcement... this morning... at the annual Fern Country Day School picnic...









































I'm glad you're home.













Oh, of course, darling.





- Okay, darling.
Terrible things were happening at Fern School this morning, weren't they, Mrs Penmark?




Yeah, Rhoda... you were very good at it, honey... but it's still awful to see and remember.
I can imagine how you feel, darling.








How can you skate and enjoy your life... when your poor little classmate's body hasn't even dried up?


I don't think you're even sad about what happened to the poor little boy.






"Brilliant lady, lying on blonde damass silks under the oak...
















Have you taken vitamins, darling?






"I thank you, beautiful lady, and I'm not only hungry and thirsty...






















Of course, I thought of her first.







- Good morning, Miss Fern.
- Good morning, Rhoda.



Is that a new book?





You see, she was the last person to see little Deagle alive.



- Several times in the morning...



So you said that Rhoda could be the last person to see...
- the little Deagle alive...























Don't frown, my dear.
You're much nicer when you smile.

I'm sure you will, but I don't think you'll find out anything new.



I know, darling.



I don't know, honey.


























I need to open it.
Of course, darling.





It's really good to see you.



























































I found out your girl was the last person to see him.
Could you ask her about the last few minutes... and tell me what she said?






My poor little Claude, how little I've done for you.







He was such a sweet, wonderful little boy.



And when you meet a beautiful girl. And you'll marry her."


'Cause there's no girl more beautiful in the world than you are.'





























I drank half a bottle of whiskey with little throats, so I'm drunk as soon as I can be.














Can I finish the last page?





Honey, I'm so glad you called.



















Okay, honey, let's not keep him.
Bye, darling.














You just don't know your old lister yet.

And all this fell on old Mr. Finchley.
He said it would take at least two weeks.



It's small.


- Don't be, honey.

It says in my horoscope that today we need to pay attention to the little things... and finish what we started.
Now, dear Christina, I'm getting out.










Mom, when we move into the new house... can we make a gazebo there too?























One of the older boys said that small shells grow on the piles.








I'm glad for him.
Rhoda, please! I know you're a good liar... but I need the truth.



























I was afraid she'd think something bad if she found out I had the medal.


You knew Mrs. Deagle needed that medal, didn't you?













She's the sweetest.


If you love little boys so much... why don't you take one or two from the orphanage?




















































"Just like that, except she's the cutest girl in the world."




Okay, honey.

















And I'll be happy to see Grandpa.


Whenever I see her, I want to have the same little girl.
There she is, playing at the table with her little plates...


She can fool a lot of people with an innocent view... that puts you on the line when you need to, but not me.






You can sleep on them... in the basement at the old dormitory... you can sleep there so no one can see you.


I hear you lured me into the bushes and beat up the poor little boy... so all three of Fern's sisters dragged you away.







You better listen to me if you don't want to get into big trouble.













You took the medal off him and you dropped the poor little boy...





















And the blood of a little boy will appear on the stick.
Only it's gonna be a beautiful blue color, like the eggs of a bunny.













I started it, Mom.










When I was playing outside this morning, I heard some people talking about it.













I'm really glad you could make it.




At times like this, an old bachelor regrets not getting married.










But she can make a lot of people happy by just smiling.
After our last meeting, I received a telegram from my father.






By the way, sweet lady... if you need a writer's advice, you can do without me.




























- Hey, honey.



I'm so glad.









This old fossil?






- It's beautiful.




You're ready for the next one, too, aren't you?


Compliments aside... my last book wasn't as good as the previous one... and the war was over, and now I'm writing pass-through articles.








I have to admit, I couldn't answer her first question.




























- So small?









Honey, you don't want to go through all these cunt-cams.

















That's the first time I've heard of it.




Three jury courts looked at her beautiful, crying face... listening to her soft, quiet voice, and declaring:








































I've always wanted a little girl... and you've always been the best daughter my father can wish for.






Well, tell me, sweetheart.


















My little Rhoda.



























My greatest luck was a little girl named Kristina.


And I was happy and proud that I could only live for you.


















She's a beautiful lady.
Beautiful as an angel.




I don't remember much from now on. I was thirsty this morning.

When the clouds brought out the first rays...


















The most charming and beautiful little girl... with the most charming smile I've ever seen.


















You were big, sweet and loved.

All I wanted was for you to be mine, and you couldn't dream any more.

Kenneth loves you, and you made him incredibly happy... and Rhoda is a sweet, beautiful, healthy girl.




















Mr. Bravo, Penmarki are the most beautiful neighbors I've ever had.




The first part I read to the hole and cried every page... so my favorite places are even more unreadable than all the rest of them.
















































That's when I hit him the first time.









- She's the sweetest.
















Now go to the bedroom and read... I need to think about what to do now.




What happened to the old Mrs. Post in Wichita?






















I'm not allowed to talk to little Miss Painca.






You're not gonna break anyone's head again, little Miss Caramelka.










Little girls aren't put on the electric chair.

They have a little blue chair for little boys... and a little pink chair for little girls.

In the morning, before the picnic, I was cleaning your dressing shoes.






























Yeah, they're burned... but they've got enough blue on them... and they're gonna show you where the little boy's blood spattered.

















































- They're beautiful.

- Sure, honey.

Well, now you look like a little princess.













Cristina, don't think I'm bothering you... but you haven't been yourself lately.








Try it, darling.

I have a beautiful complex.

















I'm not gonna bother you anymore, sweet Christine.

Really, darling.




- Dear Christina.



Now, darling.








- It's good to see you.





She's the last person to see Claude alive.

Where do you keep the perfect little lady who last saw Claude?







She's an impeccable little lady.



























You were with Claude when it happened, weren't you, darling?




It's very important to me now that he's dead.







Take your eskimo, sweetheart.






I thought she was like every girl at home listening to her mom... not running around town for important meetings.



















Since the last time I saw you, I've talked to the watchman.












I know where I'm not welcome, and I don't want to stay... where people are so busy with their social obligations.


If you don't have a lot of cash, it won't cost you five cents.









Kenneth, my dear, my love.











She really wanted to, and since she doesn't look like these... fat, conniving little cubes, I don't think that's gonna hurt her.
By the way, darling, here's your sleeping pills and your vitamins... it's clearly written.






Thank you very much, but I don't think so.
































It's Emory, darling.






What could be worse?
























- Are you gonna be okay, honey?





My little one.









You're gonna take some new vitamins today.
- New?

























- It's new.













- Good night.
- Good night, Mommy.



































































Kenneth, darling, don't say that.
Even if the worst happens... it's not all lost.





We're waiting, honey.

Same beautiful smile.





































- Thank you very much, Doctor.












- Good night, sweetheart.
- Good night, Daddy.












I'm just gonna ask Aunt Monica tomorrow morning... when we go sunbathing.





- Good night, beautiful.
- Good night, Daddy.








Kenneth, darling.






Honey, please don't say any more.






Now, ladies and gentlemen, our beautiful actors.


























































All right, you ready?







- Happy Easter.
- Happy Easter, sir.






- Why don't you buy a new car, Pat?




I'd be happy to get home.




















Hello, darling.























































- No, it's not that important anymore.


He finished renovating this morning.



























We need another one if we're gonna play two tables.







The doctor says it's psychosomatic, but I know it's dust and we need new vacuum cleaners.














- A new painting?

Good night.
- Good night.


- Good night, Lou.



- Good night.
- Good night.

- Good night.


- Good night.






- Good night.
- Let's leave them alone, sweetheart.




- I think she's very nice.

























It's... in a book. Right next to the phone. Hurry up, darling!






That's the first time I passed out.





I'll go first.





- Good night.
- Good night, Doctor.
Good night.
Good night, Richie.




















The real deal is in the last minutes of the game.





























- Ready, Doctor?
























- Nice to meet you.
- Is everything ready for forensics?









She's so beautiful.



Calm down, we just want a little sample of your camouflage muscle.

















Beautiful.


































Good morning, Ed.
- Good morning.
- Good morning.







You're the first time I've ever had one.




In the vast majority of cases,.....................................................................
However, we had some success with the new drug.







I'm sorry to say so much, Lou, but... if you think about the achievements of recent years, such as the treatment of mastoidite, typhoid and pneumonia, you have reason to hope.





I'll be right there, darling.




No, I just need to know how to open it.




Learn how to cook and do it to him every morning.





































Even the slightest cause of depression is important to us.




- Fine, fine.











- Thank you very much.























- I can replace you if I have to.












Beautiful.
















Beautiful.





























It's so expensive.


- Only this morning...


















- Honey, it's made on you.








But Ed, I don't need two dresses like this.
Of course I do.
























The first day he got out of the hospital.






Beautiful spiral!



































I'm planning something bigger, according to my profession.









Good night, sir.
- Good night, Mom.
- Good night, darling.
Ed, what's this new thing you found?









I'll order a big one tomorrow.














Go back to bed, darling.


Honey, what is it?
















Let's see how you feel in the morning.










Beautiful.

Just a little bit, the first night at home.



I need more medicine.






- Any bad reactions?












Parents are no worse than children.


















Your Louise is a charming little creature.














And people like me need to teach these troubled kids how to read the word recognition system, as if our language were a collection of ideograms.


He tells us we have to go back to the old reading.
Old reading?






The world is ready to explode.
If the Republic has to survive, we have to teach the old virtue of hard work again, self-discipline and sense of duty.








You're a great friend.

But Lou, have you noticed anything strange lately... in a manner of speaking?

You know, like a big shot.







Lou, you don't think this guy has such a big mouth that his leg might even fit in.


Yes, darling.














Isn't that sweet?
My old buddy takes my wife while I'm at work.















I can run a new kind of adult TV show.








It's a new project, I can't pay tribute to him in the atmosphere of... small domestic life.

Suddenly, one morning you're free, released.

















Go back to your old job or something.






















Why don't you wait till morning?








- But it's so expensive.


Can't you tell the difference between trivial and important?

















The first duty of a man is to raise his son.










No, honey, you don't have to leave.






























































It's important.



- Do you need cream today?

















Besides, it's not the first time you've pissed me off by calling me back.


























































Take a new leaf.












50 cents doesn't matter.
















I'm willing to sacrifice everything for it.
































I just needed to think, I guess.












Yes, darling.


If you think you fooled me with your soft... "Yeah, darling," "no, darling," you're a total idiot.










First..... that I can preach the word of the Lord... true and hear it... bow your heads to him, who says... anything you do not ask of the Father in my name... will give you.

























But the first debt is fundamental.




You'll be happy to know you won.

















You did a pretty bad thing.




It's very important.







It's more important.

Wye needs me.
Please, darling.





















Abraham got up early in the morning and... gave him wood to burn... and came to the place God told him about.



















Your little boy!

Look at this, his first pictures.

























Can we walk together for the last time?






































If there's anything new, he'll tell you.









































You have to believe that.





















You're a bad substitute for Abraham Lincoln.











He was so big and... unpleasant... and handsome... as he was in his life.









It's important to remember.

















He's leaving for Mexico City in the morning and wants to talk to you.






I got it from Don Alehandreau in the final selection. - I think you misunderstand him.

And it's old!
So old that gives birth to the last calf, right now! - The calf?






















- He's gonna need help.

















We need a more threatening name.






























- I need to send a letter.
An important letter.



Please. You need special words here.







- He's too old for that.















- What's wrong with that? - What's wrong?
























































































































































- To a beautiful American woman, señorita! - For a man who goes to slaughter the bulls, you're very kind.



















- Nice to meet you, Leonardo!












I'm glad to see such a stubborn bull... and don't think about the damage!






















- I don't want rich girls! All I need is you!







- I guess we're just not used to it. - My dear señorita!
Americans slap each other in the ring pointlessly, and it's not considered cruel. Three dozen Englishmen with a hundred dogs drive a little fox to death.






























- I'm so glad you came!
- Honey, can you get me some wine, please?













But I'm... I'm glad for him, too.








I have the honour to introduce to you our dear friend, Mr. De La Gars, inspector of our school district.
- Friends, we're approaching the most important part of our ceremony today.
Three of our students, from the first grade in the history of our school, have completed the first six years of their education today.

And they worked very hard themselves. I have the honour to award the first degree to Maria Teresa MendisAbl.



Third, and last, for Frederico Sanchez Ventura. Come here, Frederico.
















Four-year-old bulls will be sold tomorrow with a certificate ready for the arena. Including Cortihedo, Negrito, Hitano, Valeroso and other Valente children!
This is the last brand of Videgarai.


















































- Excuse me, sir. I just need to go to Mexico City.





Is this the first time you're going to Mexico City?




It's the most beautiful city on earth.


We'll be there in the morning.
Good night.
And don't snore. I'm having a bad dream.


(S.H.I.E.L.D. - Good morning!
- Good morning, sir!


























- Now, Mr. Gracias, sir. (Thank you very much, spy)




















- I need to meet the president.












I need to meet him.










- First battle, ladies and gentlemen!

















- It's very, very important!









































Thank you, sir! Thank you very much!


- I'm gonna need those prayers.

- I need Dr. Gaona!






It's important!






























































You're 21 now, and you're going to the big city, Phoenix, Arizona.













He's not used to traveling, he left the ranch for the first time.


































- Good morning, ma'am.







- But it's morning, it's time to get up.

























































It's clean and cozy! And there's a nice mistress!























































































The juggler guys came first.











































Since we have a small scene, we have to use it.






















































What else do you need?



It means "my darling."










It's a beautiful name, Boregard.


















Well, you're so big, strong and damn handsome.







I want you to know first.


































We'll be happy together until death do us part.


Cherry, we'll talk about this tomorrow morning.

Good night, darling.






But you can't marry the first person you meet.






















- Good morning, ma'am.



- Good morning, Cherry.

Get up, we have to get to the parade by 10:30.











Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I didn't go to bed until 5:00 a.m.!












I know everything I need about your intelligence.




87 years ago, our ancestors brought to this continent a new nation that believes in freedom and the idea that all human beings are born equal.





"It is important to concentrate our strength and our faith..."












- Put me down! It's beautiful!































Come on, darling.















































































































I don't care about the finals. I need Cherry!







































It wasn't like the first time.

- First time?
















It's good to see you, darling. I was afraid you were trampled in the crowd yesterday.




Except for the last tournament.





Bo, the show's gonna start in a minute... I need to powder my nose.


It's already packed, it's there. I need to powder my nose.











Good luck, darling.
Thank you, Vera, you're so sweet.









I don't need a teacher.


- Wait, I need to...




















No, in his old suit, just without his tail.












If you loved him, it wouldn't be so bad.

















Although I'm glad I didn't marry my cousin because he didn't end up like Daddy said.


Bo turned out to be the first guy to want to marry me, apart from cousin Malcolm.






























It can last until morning.
See you in the morning?












Is it that bad?

























You have very big hands.




































































He's ready. I'd love to be taller myself.





























Grace has a big sofa upstairs.

































Good morning, darling.









































I've been treated worse in my life.








All right, happy.

It's not that bad, is it?































Because I'm not the girl you want.



Since you brought it up yourself, you're the first girl I've ever had anything with.






It's all set.

















I'll be very happy, Bo.


























I've never heard such sweet and gentle words in my life!

You don't need strength, Bo.

- That's the last thing you need.


















Our ranch will be the most beautiful place on earth, because there will be an angel.

- Old piece of paper!








- You don't need me anymore.















You need to put something on.
Goodbye! Goodbye, everyone!
The morning comes... the last bat spins... whistles the first morning train...
And there, far away, the city... a small provincial city of some province, some country.

















Huh, Lucien? What's wrong with my article?









Let's give him the first call!











So you're calmer?









This is my town! Beautiful, wonderful town of the province!
The face of our city defines three things: a cathedral bell, a three-day seminary walk in the Grand Alley and a walk on Main Street.










and quite unique old editions of the greatest works of classical literature.














"Modern" and "Old Quarter"...





































It's a pleasure. Sorry, I didn't have the pleasure...


Nice to meet you.






Oh, yeah. It's a beautiful autumn. Yeah, yeah, good...












She doesn't have to show up in daylight.




We need to draw up a plan of action. Goodbye night needs to jump.


"The new cafe" goes on... the turn towards the Old Quarter.









































Now we're going to the Old Quarter.























Stay, honey! It's Saturday!







Goodbye, dear Pepita.

















Good night! See you tomorrow!



What a beautiful mass. Yeah, it's really beautiful! Good afternoon!























She wouldn't mind picking him up. Beautiful party for a girl!


























If you're ready, let's go!















Oh, no, no... it's much worse when it's justified.
















You're supposed to be an old maid of honor.









A new boarding house called Castilla.
Well, it's not bad... and it seems to contain it... hello!





Ooh! It's much more expensive!









Can't you even give me a minute? Actually, that's very nice of you.











At the last ball, she didn't walk away from my wife and me and ruined our evening!






I bet Isabella says yes to the first person to propose to her.

























Beautiful! So you're okay with that?
























She's already lived her life, girl! I'll walk you out, that's all! It's all fine for her!
She's a widow, fat, old, well, what about you?


















...and stop talking to that old 40!

































I already said I needed to talk to you.





It doesn't matter to me. That's not what matters to me.











And if I'm asking you to date me, it's important to me.





There's a new American movie there today. The action takes place in the kitchen. The whitest and the cleanest.
















I was sure that one day someone would show up and take me far away... far away...

Ha... That's what my aunts said. Every family has such lovely aunts. They're spying on you, asking you a bunch of questions.





I was only 30 years old, and she already thought I was an old maid.




We also had a small farm... my poor mother was always in a bad mood, and I waited for me to marry a man who wasn't here because young people of the age when they were younger than me.
I didn't want to think about old bachelors.



















I'm gonna have an old mother.























What? Are you okay? No! No!




































































































Isabella, darling! It's so good to see you.




I'm so happy for you, poor thing!















Is that him? I'm very happy!





I'm so glad!
Poor thing, darling!












It's the first time they've seen us together.















If you come to the monastery, we'll be very happy!











First person to talk to us, I'm gonna bite.














And the new project?

He and I decided that we should speed things up:










Our plan needs work! Wait!






























You see, this girl is happy because I'm lying to her!










She's happy now... happy.











You have to have your own place! Ha-ha...




And there's gonna be a lot of beautiful toys, dolls, animals... and stars on the walls. We're gonna have a lot of kids! Yeah, Juan?







































That's a great idea!


I need this dress the day after tomorrow for the ball!

























Good night!
Good night!













And it's nice to see her happy that she believes so much in my love.

If I married her out of pity, she might be happy, but...










You want to be calm...















Yeah, stop, honey... you know:
Are you very happy?










Tonight, you know, everything's going well for me, just fine, but I'm afraid it's not gonna change.


















This isn't a new joke!
Not the first time!

And know that old girls don't die, that's why they're old!

































Just for the old girls.























Nothing that makes a person think and one day they discover that their neighbor is a funny thing for them.









But understand, I'm talking about Madrid of neon light, big streets.


































What do you miss at the bank that you dreamed of doing big things and traveling and that you're a loser?












Only one thing matters to an old lady like me? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,






We had a fight and I'm happy!



When you're too happy, it's bad!
I'm happy now, but in the shower, it's a little sad. And the balance has been restored.










This is the first time you've spoken to me, and today, this is the first time we've had a fight!
X... I'm so happy!

Nothing's gonna happen! Nothing wrong with that!




We have to say it!
















"Poor guy, he wasn't bad!" - you say... you're all gonna be sad, but calm down quickly.






















































































































You need to leave!
You have to live, believe me!
Isabella, we have to live!














Honey.
Honey?
Sweetheart, you know, the Hivaros Indians, in order to honor the first beauty and to make her fit, are presented to her in accordance with the custom of a cut-off head on a full moon. That's awful!








































Good evening, darling.









Yvonne, when will it be ready?















All the worse, throw it away.











But if it mattered to them, they wouldn't have lost the number just like that.




















Monday...................................................... First day of the week.
I'll go tomorrow morning.
It's becoming a nice habit.

I'll go to the train station tomorrow morning.






Tomorrow morning, I promise.



You're so cute.

Goodbye, darling.












Yeah, I hope you miss him less.
You're so cute.


What's wrong with you? Are you sulking all morning?








It's beautiful!















































It could have been worse.





























































































Here's the last move.





The latest news!

























What's with the keys?












- Thank you very much.







- What do you want?


























You can't be so bad, even for money.















He played on the first day of her daughter's birth.





































Mr. Riesman, if you hold a small hotel... and you iron your robe trousers, you work like a ox... so that your son can get an education and make progress... it's hard to give up a dream.









































Lou, be ready to do Lucky Lindy.






































Are you ready now?














































This should be ready by Tuesday.







- That's nice.







Marjorie, for the last time, please close the store... and come to Southampton for the weekend.








Goodbye, darling.













- But you don't have to make a living.
- I want the meaning of life.























































































- I'm glad you're with us.













I'm glad.


- I don't think you know everything that's happened to me lately.





You know, it's new for me... to be here as a guest, not as a hired musician.







- Thank you very much.



















- I remember one day, a little girl... she came to an appointment in the garden in a lovely new dress.
It was raining that morning... and I ran out of the house to show myself to the guests.












You should be happy for Eddie.
















Oh, I'm so glad we stopped playing.













- Yes, a Latin proverb made up this morning.
- Listen, can I give you a little speech?








































- In two years, it's the first night... when I don't play casino.












You know, honey?



- I hope so, sweetheart.





No, honey.
I don't need what I can buy.



















My dear Eddie.





































Honey, what happened?

















- Are you happy?













- Oh, she's beautiful.














- She's not gonna make it to morning.

Eddie Duchin is finishing a broadcast from Central Park Casino in New York City... and wishing you all a happy, merry Christmas.
Marjorie, honey, I'll be right there.
Merry Christmas!



Merry Christmas.
- Merry Christmas.












































You know... everything's ready at home.





Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas!






A new audience.
New environment, hilarious and bright.

















Good morning.
- Good morning.












We're being urged, right after New Orleans.



































- He's happy!










There are four days before New Orleans.























Near San Francisco, on the ocean coast... there's a big rock, and there's hundreds of wild seals on it.















Thank you very much.
















And the worse it gets, the closer to Japan.







Honestly, I need you here.








You see, here you disappear in this reality, where all the little personal sorrows disappear.










Dear Peter, there's so much I want to tell you.























You have no idea how happy I am to see you.







- Sherm, I'm dialing a new band.





Yeah, tell me about his little girlfriend.

Nice child.












I'm so happy to be with you again.
I hope you're happy to see me.







She's from a beautiful Japanese collection.


I'm so happy to finally meet you.






































Over the past five weeks, both the guys have been collecting... and the organizational issues have been resolved... and the contracts have been readin' in small print...














We'll buy you some new clothes.


Peter and I bought everything this morning.




















- Mr. Duchin, every child needs a father.


















You don't have to believe me... but I'm ready to kneel to this boy.

































This isn't the last time you're here.









































You know, Eddie, when you get to 50... you need a medical checkup at least twice a year.


















Looks like you when we first met.





































- That's the first topic.




Eddie, if I can... if I can again... I'm very happy that you've come close to Peter and... that Peter really has a father.



















First love only happens once.
The birth of the first child.




Chiquita, you need to know... that I'm willing to do anything for you to stay with us.



















































































I'm ready.





The last one is the weak one.




- The last one is the weak one.






































Peter, I need your help.









Peter, there's no one in the world more important to me than you.













































Doctor, it's definitely a beautiful horse!
Yeah, we're gonna get the horses in the morning.


























Yeah, it's big.
Do you have a big ranch?
There's all kinds of big ones and little ones.
His ranch is Reata, one of the biggest.

How big is it?
It's one of the biggest.

Where I come from, there's a couple of these big ones, and there's more on the plains off the coast.















Why don't you stay and see more?

It's a big spring pen.




I think I'm leaving early tomorrow morning. So goodbye!
I'm really glad you're here.








- Good night!


And now good night!
As for me, I'm ready to buy.




- Good morning.


And until 5:00 a.m., I read about Texas.

You have to read a lot to get to know Texas!














I didn't mean to be rude, but it's all new to me, everything, it's so new, and it's so exciting.









- Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Good morning, Leslie.
- Good morning, Dad!

We need to leave soon, Jordan, if you want to catch the train.
- Good morning, everyone!
- Good morning, Nancy!
Good morning, darling, good morning, Mr. Benedict!
What a beautiful morning it is!


And besides, Mr. Benedict is probably engaged to the daughter of the ranch owner next door, who, although beautiful, is relatively poor.

Is she beautiful?
We need to hurry.











It's just a little old coyote.



For the last eight hours.
I don't know how the other wives are on their honeymoon, Mr. Benedict, but it was a great time for me.


Wake up, darling, we're here.


Good morning!








That's a nice name.

There he is, darling, our house.













You're my wife, darling, you're Benedict.



Oh, so sweet, so cool.



















You were gone, and I needed help.












Sorry, honey, it's all upside down when I leave.
Remember the big rodeo?



This is Bick's room, and this is your room, darling.





Breakfast's ready.

We drink coffee and talk every morning at 5:00 p.m., plan on what to do during the day.














You just don't have to work hard.









It's really nice to meet you!

It's a pleasure, Mrs Benedict.
We're very pleased to see you here.

Good for you. It's a pleasure.


















I'm glad we're neighbors.


















You haven't eaten that much yet, darling.















Good morning, Luz.








Good morning, darling.



I want everyone to know, no matter what happens here in the future, I'll never faint again.



I'd put her on a more peaceful horse if I were you.




Look at them, darling!








The result is right in front of you, darling.


Tired, darling?







Honey, I'm fine, really!


Good morning, Jett.

I don't want to freak out about it, Bick, but we need to figure this out.

















That's what you need.





















If he dumps me, he won't be the first to do it!


I'm not bad at all.













Beautiful Reata.


















My milk is bad.






















It's bad.













It's a big disaster, but there's no one to blame.

























Jordan, honey, I don't think you understand.




I'm much better, darling.









Bick, I'm sorry, but we need you in that room for a little while if you can leave.


We have to go. Verne and I have been thinking a lot about Luz...












So this piece of land is worth 500, at least $600.

I'm gonna ask you to give Jett Rink a double check.






You don't need to say a word to me anymore.






Hey, Jett, good to see you.

Good to see you.







Jett, I don't need to tell you that Luz was a sentimental woman.






This piece is worth the most, how much, Bale?
I'd say more than 500 or 600, Bick.

Now let's get down to business, Mr. Rink! We're ready to hand over $1,200 in cash to you.





















I know this land is worth a little, but someday I could put my own fence around it. And call her Little Reata.

There's only one thing in this world that's more important than money is land.






















Don't be in a hurry, darling.
























You're gonna get tired of this, darling.



You married me in Washington, remember, darling?
























Go, darling.
Good night, gentlemen!

Good night.

Honey, I'm sorry about my cavemen speech.





















I'm not that bad.












Of course, darling...




What a lovely, luxurious new day!








When we make peace, we make peace, huh, darling?















































He'll tell you what needs to be done immediately.














It's the first time I've been accused of having them.




That's so sweet of you!



You've become even prettier than you used to be.
Anyway, no worse.








































Hello, darling.





















My dear girl, did you think your naughty mom would never come to see you?







Oh, honey.






















It wasn't that bad, was it, son?





- Good night, Leslie!
- Good night.
- Good night.
- Good night.

- Good night, Bick!
- Good night, Boley.
Good night, everyone.



We've been getting on each other's nerves lately.

We've been together since the day we first met, every day and every night.
Is that bad?

But we have a habit of yelling at each other about things we should have adapted to a long time ago.











- Good morning.













Yes, darling.







No... he writes, I hope my dears, that you're all happy.





Dear beloved, we are here before God and all present to unite this man and this woman with the sacred bond of marriage, which is a noble institution established by God.












Are you ready to go back to your old, fucked-up cattleman?



What do you think of old King Tute?

















What do you want?







And there's more supplies down there.





Jett, we're really glad you found the oil.







Disgusting like an old cook!



































You're always free, my dear.












I'm willing to die for my father if I have to.









It won't be easy, darling.



Honey, I thought.















Are you saying you're ready for the victims?


















And I'm ready for the victims.
















Of course, it would mean a great sacrifice on your part.
No matter where he studies, he'll come home and run Reata.






We're an old generation.






























It's the most expensive phone call you've made, Bick.





There they are. Come down, darling.



You know Mom wanted a big wedding!



He's the first soldier from Reata.



















- Nice to meet you.
- I was very happy, too.














But we need doctors, too.
We need doctors in the war, too.














































It doesn't matter.


It's as important as wearing a machine gun.












You see, sir, big farms are out of date now.
The big ones are out of date? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,






I see, darling.


I fought the bush, the dust, the wind, to keep it as big as it was.



Give it to the poor old Indians!














We need to talk business. Goodbye.

Everyone calls me Jet, darling.


The country needs gas.




I'm ready.










Bail, I'll tell you what old Pinky thinks.












Will you accept each other in good and bad, in wealth and poverty, in sickness and in health, for the rest of your lives?









He was the first baby I saw on Reate.














My dear Luz, if I didn't know that your young shoulders had Benedict's sober head, I would have prescribed a good twirl!







Honey, it's a coronation.

You have to have $10 million to be on the guest list.
All the most important people in the country will be there.














Old Benedict spirit.



























































You know, you can be the first lady in this part of the country if you want. If you make the right choice.











And I think you're beautiful.




















The opening of Jett Rink Airport and the Emperador Hotel is the last mile in the dramatic life of this brave son of Texas.


Where's Pinky, the old mouse?























Their behavior is weird, but their manners are beautiful!







You know, honey, you're incredibly good when you're angry.

Hello, darling!



My darling, hello!









Yes, darling.
Be there, darling.








Come on, we need to hurry.














Jordan, we need to hurry if we're gonna make it to the beginning.
Luz, honey, you look great.





















Wait, honey. I'll be right back.




Are you sick here?




















I'll ask you to join me today to cross pages in your book of happy memories. I remember the first time I saw young Jet Rink. - Where is he?









And Jett, not forgetting his kindness, is always willing to give his funds to the even greater glory of the state that raised him and which, in turn, honors him today at this solemn meeting.





How bad?


He needs help.
You'll get on a plane faster if you wait for the first flight.













I told you that the morning you told me, remember?






































Luz, darling!









He must have gotten sick.






It's important.


I know where he is, darling.

Okay, Luz, if you really need it!
We have to.



Ready to go with your friend?

















Poor beautiful Leslie.
Beautiful Leslie.
Beautiful, wonderful young wife.


She's a beautiful, wonderful woman anyone wants!





















I thought this guy needed a tamale.










You don't need your money here.
















Is that all this old horserad is capable of?
He feels your mood, darling.























Small.









Yes, darling. Everything's moving.



Where do you think I've been for the last quarter of a century?





The little torturer's gone.





























Happy Arrow One, then Purple Shadow.
That Sunday last week of September... at 3.45 Marvin Unger was the only... of 100,000 people who didn't care about the fifth race.




After all, what does it mean... to lose thirty dollars when there's a lot of money at stake?









There's a quarter of a distance, happy Arrow ahead... and purple Shadow, SEKUNDOMER three.

The Happy Arrow is three quarters behind.


Happy Arrow goes forward, right behind it is the Purple Shadow.

Happy Arrow, Purple Shadow and Sundomer head-to-head.
Happy Arrow, Purple Shadow and Sundomer...
Purple Shadow comes second, Happy Arrow third... and fourth place South Star.

Adding the last bits, we get the picture we've been waiting for.


The same evening, an hour earlier, on the other side of town, patrolman... first class Randy Keenan was supposed to decide one depot.










New car, great apartment...








I'll write the rest as a new debt.






But, of course, we need guarantees.






Glad to hear it, Randy.













On the same day at 7:00, Johnny Clay, the most important link in the chain, worked out his plan.























Nobody wants me.
I'm not beautiful or smart. Please don't leave me alone.


















































Something nice.





























It's gonna be your last words, but you're gonna die without suffering.




























Big money.





- Of course, darling.











- Even me, honey?











Sherry, Sherry, honey, you're not gonna die me.
















You don't need me.
You're talking about love, but when you have to prove it, you walk away.



- Sure, honey.






I'm glad.



- No, you don't.


























You have a husband who spends the last penny on you... and doesn't ask questions if you come from a movie at 9:00 p.m.






Honey, what's your greatest interest in life?




Wait. What do you mean, money and women, honey?

























- That's what he needs.












We need to find out more about this.










- What the hell do you need them for?



























Randy, you're gonna have to wait for me on the first street.
















It doesn't matter.

























































You're a curious little bitch.





You have a big dollar mark on your heart.



- You don't know me well, Johnny.













































Honey.































Sorry, honey.







- Do you need a partner?
















- It's good to see you.








No better, no worse.











When I need money, I go fight.


















The food's bad, the company's bad, the beds' little...





I need a man who knows he's taking risks and won't complain if it gets tight.











- Yeah, it's what it takes.





























Our horse runs in the seventh race. Best three-year-old in years.








Red Lightning on the straight line will be the first.


























It doesn't matter.

I need a room for a week.






























Four days later, Sherry Pitti woke up at 7:30 a.m.















I've been annoying and bad lately.





When we get the money and buy all the new stuff, I'm gonna stop thinking about myself.











































All that matters right now is that I love you, George.

At 5:00 a.m., Red Lightning got half a feed. They started preparing her for the seventh race at the 100 grand prize.
At 7:00 a.m., Johnny Clay had a day that could be his last.






It's all set.
















New life....................................... New people.


Why don't you and I leave for a while and let this old world spin on its own for now? It's time to re-evaluate the values.




I'll be back after 7:00 in the morning.













- Good morning.






















In the quarter of 12th, Mike O'Reilly was ready.














I know, darling.



Of course, darling, but hurry up or you'll be late.









- You'll be sick again in the morning.




Thank you, darling.
































The results of the first race will be posted on the bulletin board.

Mike was busy after the first race.























It wasn't the first time he was on the track... and he knew he'd arrive exactly at the appointed time.

















Tell him Maurice needs his help.


There are things, dear Fisher, that are best left out.




















Half the first one arrived at the track.





























Very nice.













- You don't need anything else?







This morning, I thought it was gonna be pasturous, but it didn't work out.





































































































- What do you want?












































From a nice lady...











Ten minutes later, he bought a big suitcase.
I'm here, Val, honey.




What did you do, darling?







I'm sick, Sherry.


















That's sweet.







- No, we passed everything this morning.

I'm sorry, sir, but it's too big.










I'd love to.







Yeah, it's too big for the passenger compartment.








I don't need this.















Don't be afraid of those beautiful planes.





























They live in one of these old big houses. How do you like that?









Did you tell me the house was old and half destroyed?




















- Beautiful house.

I love these old houses. There's an atmosphere in them.




























I wrote two novels by the age of 20. Big case!






























If she wants a man, let her get married.





































I need some kindness... love...



I need water...




















He's an old grump...








Old chickens are the meatiest.






















Thank you, Marina. Good night.



















































You're so much prettier when you laugh.
Don't you want to be beautiful?












I have to go.
































































Good morning.
























I'm afraid they'll find out and something bad happens.
Nothing bad is gonna happen. Trust me.






- Is she beautiful?


"You're beautiful," I told her, "You have a beautiful smile."

♪ Luckily, you're beautiful for both of us ♪


















We were happy, we thought he was here...






























We're gonna need rooms.










































I think we need to get on the first ship going home.


















































I know it's... it's hard at first glance.
And the first and the second and the last...


















I have to stay because... because...




No, nothing important.





Ready.




















Come on, darling.























You old coward!
















































































I needed to see you.




























- You're so cute.










I'll be back. I need you.




(new address ) Quarter 68. - Where does he live?


Thank you very much, ma'am.







14th, 1st.
Good morning.

































It's a small bull, but it's very evil.




































































































Little bull...

























I'm ready to clear a misunderstanding through the press.








If you need anything...










Here, look at that one, she's the smallest.





It's like a new one, but I'll give it to you for 2,000.









































Not bad.




























Besides, why do you need this particular boy, because there are so many of them?

















The thing is, I need 300 pesetas.












I know. But I need them.











The less you talk, the better.




To Garden Street, Madrid, suitcase house, last floor.

































These big glasses, how much?

A little help to the last defender of pure music.

Thank you very much.










There's nothing more beautiful than music.




































I need you today.








































Come alone in the morning before I start serving.







That's true, but there's a lot of new numbers.
Will you give me the old ones?











The important thing is that you like it, and this morning you loved it very much.








Museums, and above all state-owned ones, do not have large grants.

In our case, the owner of the painting is in a hurry, he needs the money urgently.




























You have to say it with a lot of suffering so you can be trusted.










You need someone who buys a thing for 300 pesetas, and says it costs 2,000 pesetas, that's because he's a con man.









The thing is... I need money.































Besides, this señor, the first one.




Thank you very much.







Are you happy?





































































I'm ready.






He said he bought them for a lot of money.























It's a very important case.











Because I don't have the money and I need the money.



































































































Has anyone seen Sanchez lately?

































He bought it from me for the first time today... and, last time.





















With you, he's gonna be a bum if he doesn't get hurt, something worse.




















































At least 3:00. In the morning, I pay two pesetas for a bag and no more santima. If you want to work, no, go away.
Less than 500, we're not gonna do that.

































I'll pay when I'm big!
When it's big...






























































































Have you seen the raincoat test?






































From the last communications sessions, even before the destruction of the wire line, we learned that Your Majesty's former senior officer had moved to the side of Feophar Khan and his Tartar.














I need you to listen carefully, gentlemen, to warn my brother, the great prince, of the new danger he faces in the shortest possible time.





To reach Irkutsk, you have to cross about 7,000 versts across territories, half of which are under the absolute control of the Tatars.
Then we need to find a man...



Beautiful!
I want him in my office in less than an hour.

























































You will take the first train to Lower Novgorod.

























































Is she even beautiful?

Now I can say she's beautiful.



Sit down, I need to talk to you.

If you want to tell me that my father died in prison, do it faster; I'm used to bad news.


This isn't about the bad news.


I don't see a big difference.





















Your new papers are ready.










Here's the new paperwork.



It's very important to me that Mr. Korpanov gets to Irkutsk safely.












In a small village between Omsk and Tobolsk.









They've been asking us this morning.

What are you complaining about, my dear?


















































I hope it's enough; I bought it in full this morning, and it was used to rob me:




























































Yours is very beautiful.




























It's gonna be an officer, a very important assignment, and probably a sibling, because... He needs to know the region.












































































































I need a wagon and soon!
You all want the same thing: "I need horses, fast."











So what do you want?

Uh, the worse for them...
I need a tarantas, three horses, and a drawer.











Lay down on me, you'll be much less shaken.




































































Yeah, the last three.





Igor, bring the new horses and cuff them now.



Maybe you don't know the latest news.














So you're the one who took the last horses?

I need them.
The first to arrive, the first to be served, sir.
I was the first.
I'm telling you, I need these horses.




















By order of the military crossing from one shore to the other, Irtysh is suspended until further orders are received.








I need to cross this river at all costs.




































































We need to unload the ferry!














Yes, but there are times when trade is more important than marriage.
















No need, my dear, Mr. Korpanov wanted to leave you in a kind word, that's all.

















I was the first one to find this telegraph point, didn't I?



If the roles were changed, I'd let you wire first!






Please, my dear; given that my journey will be much richer than yours, it will give me more time to make it.



















































My little one.


































































Tomorrow morning, three columns are set up and will come together under Irkutsk.
The first one will leave Ekmesk.





We must strike Siberia in the heart; the city must fall in 28 days.




And you're gonna be the first one in town.










You saw him, you old sorcerer.

















Ivan, we need this man, and she's the only one who can point you at him.























































She was old enough to die.

You'll see for the last time, then your eyes won't see the light anymore.















What do you want here?









Nadia, I need to get away from these cattle.




There are 30 guys in my village who are willing to give their lives for you.





There's an old hunting trick you should know.


























He was killed in the first battle.







Finally reached the shores of Angara, the last obstacle separating us from Irkutsk.


In a few days, the "Order" subscribers are likely to see a big article entitled



















We can't wait any longer; we have to go now!
The first person to touch the oars will die.


In less than a week, our walls will have over 300,000. Tartar.......................................
















































You should probably get some rest.


















- You're exaggerating, my dear.

It's all set.























There won't be a big difference.














All camps ready to storm.

First door to the right, Captain.



























If it's desperate, that's exactly what I need, Captain Strogov.







Ready to follow your orders, Captain Strogov.












Colonel Michael Strogov, Commander of the First Cossack Regiment of Siberia, on behalf of Emperor Alexander and on behalf of my personal name, I reward you with the Order of St. George.






So I ended up in New Bedford. There was a frowning Saturday night of the thousand eight hundred and forty-first year.







Do you need a room?



We need permission.


- We need permission.











Big whales for him.








































"And the Lord has prepared a great fish to devour Jonah."







































Big book.





























Beautiful ship.






























Yeah, big as an island.

















- "Don't collect... big treasures in this world where moths and rust destroy."



































How'd his last swim go?


























Your boys are gonna cost more this year.
























Quiqueg became the first harpooner.






































The one of you who sees the white whale first gets this Spanish double.


















































His skin is like a big marble stove.


















































We cut the first whale... and we boiled it to get fat. This fat will bring light to a lot of houses, make you walk the fire watch. And maybe he'll serve during the coronation.




















The ship's logs of New Bedford's first whales... helped me draw up this plan.























Captain, I'm ready to die when we do our duty, but it's different.



It's not money that matters.

















But it doesn't matter.






That's what my first watch looked like. We were sliding on calm waters.




































When I got this comfortable thing, I was ready to thank that whale.



Old, crumbled like the hills of Jerusalem.














New Guinea will have it by the new moon in April.










































Let Moby Dick be big. But how much?












































I'll be the first to see a white whale.

































- What do you want?

































Starbuck, new order.
We stay here until 8:00 a.m., then we get up on the oars. Let's go north. All the time on the oars.



























He's ready.






It's not a whale, it's a big white god.
































































































Set up a new sail.





















Now I'm gonna lighten the last of my fears.

Set new sails.








He's ready to confront him until the giant asks for mercy.










On a day like this, I killed my first whale.




I feel old, saddled, like Adam, after heaven bent under the load of centuries.



Captain, for the last time, I beg you.









Once again, a clear sky and a calm sea.












































His hump is like a big snow summit.








































I'm not leaving you till the last breath, you damn whale.



























The first reports say that the wreckage of the plane crash is at the top of the Ladies Mountain. Squads are being formed to try to get to the scene of the disaster.












- Order the carriage of Mademoiselle's luggage into my car and give me the bill. - Nice to meet you.


It's nice of you to come all this way for me.
- Very nice.



Honey, that's the look I've seen before.

I'm too old to be jealous.

































You know I need to take care of my brother.

And in case you haven't noticed, you don't get prettier with time either.



I'll teach you everything you need to know...








A plane crashed in the mountains at night, a large plane with passengers.

















You know, important letters and stuff.













The climb begins tomorrow morning.




If they want people, ask them if they're gonna take me?


It's important to me, I want to be someone, not nothing.





- They were the first to climb this mountain.










What do you think about climbing the north side? Is that a big risk?








We have to bring the proviant, the stretcher, the radio station, we need a doctor in case there are survivors.










You need people to climb, and my brother would like to go with you.










Last time a man died.










They will rise to the first peak on this side to maintain radio contact with Servoz on the glacier.







- No, they don't want me, Servoz is a good guide.



















I had to go to work when I was 14.



































- We need money.



I've been talking to hotel owners, they want to build a new ski route for the next season...












Do as I say. We'll sell the house. And if you want your consent, give it to me.



- It takes time and a lot of paperwork. - A month or less.


- It's gonna take a while to think about it.
























- It happened early this morning.













- His wife is very bad.













- They had no choice but to carry a lot of cargo.



















They were big friends.



















It's very important.

























All of this can wait until next year. A new rescue team will be sent there in the spring.







- You don't have to believe everything they talk about.

















Build a new barn, buy more sheep... 50, maybe a hundred.








My last climb was 10 years ago.





Most important.



Is money so important to you? - I won't do anything to get out of here!




Prepare the paperwork you need, I'll sign it.





























You'll never get through the first complicated pass.








She's old and unreliable.
























- Take it easy.





































- You ready?














This place is bad.



























We need to breathe.

Ready, you can lift.


Last precinct...







But you have to be very careful.






- No, we need to move on.







































































We need to get away from the wind.









































I totally forgot. I was only thinking about climbing, how best to go. It was the most important thing for me to come here, and for what reason, I forgot.
I know what's important to me.














- They'll be buried in the snow before spring. There's something to celebrate.































I hear people in India are very rich and important.





























You don't have to worry.



- What do you want?

- What do you want?

She's worse.































Going down the glacier isn't that hard, you have to try.










Sorry, little lady.


























He came into my arms, and I took care of him when he was a kid.











- On behalf of our little...








Everything's ready at the hospital to take her in. If she's capable, we'll take her to the hospital.
- We're ready to do it right now.






















Yeah, I'm very pleased to meet you.

She's... she's a very beautiful girl, isn't she?

You realize that in a few days, when you come to your senses, I'm gonna need all the details.







I wanted to rob the plane. I needed money, things. I wanted to... buy sheep...






















































- It doesn't matter.











- Doesn't matter.



























- I need a little more time.





I need paint.


Tell me when you're ready.
- I'm ready.

I need to finish filming.
































Give me a big canvas.






Don't be, it's gonna get worse.
















I'll take a new canvas and start over.












There's no one left in that town but a little boy... screaming on the main street.








I'm really glad you asked, mister.
Oh, my God, I'm so glad.






Easy enough to be held by a little girl.

I want you to know that the first tornado rod will be made free of charge... to this cute little girl if she tells me her name.





So, that was the first one.































































I'm gonna give it to some pretty guy.







































































































If they're into Aunt Eve, I bet they told you to die.
























I'm sorry you had to spend so much money on the road and a new dress.


















The first three or four days I barely left the room.



















Ten minutes later... little Pete ran to the lunch table.















- Little Pete, huh?
- Yeah, me and little Pete.

When I left Sweeeverer, little Pete cried... and said to me,
"Lizzie, you're the most beautiful girl I've ever seen."

Yeah, I'm beautiful to you, I'm beautiful to Pete.







You're afraid to be beautiful.
I'm afraid to think I'm beautiful, and I know I'm not.







- Good night, Noah.

- Good night, Jimmy.











- Need some help?














Well, I see you're not ready to accept help.






- Good morning, darling.
















The lightning shone and the sound of thunder rolled, and the poem in the gorge... was like a baby with a big drum.



It was a beautiful dream, Noah.
Almost as beautiful as rain.































Even if you or Jim need to tie your shoelaces, you ask Noah.

















I want to make someone happy.
I want someone to be happy that they found me... and I'll be happy that I met him.



I think if it comes down to making someone happy.










Now you want to give me the dog, but I don't need it.
How can you know you don't need her if you haven't seen her yet?






When you sit with your bare feet, he comes up and licks your thumb.





You have to have something warm under your side.






- When I was a kid, I had a dog.















The stupid little dog fell under the wheels.





Right in my old missing legs.







































































- I'll be glad to see you the other day.












































































How's my six feet taller double-looking?




I'm glad you're alive and well, too.
















I don't see anything wrong with that, Noah.


Doesn't matter how, does it?
So, ask yourself if it doesn't really matter.

Well, maybe it's important.





Beautiful.







We need to know when we can start eating.




















Lizzie, there was just a little fight.
Why didn't you turn it into a big scandal?





Bad as a pair of old shoes."












She has a bed and a table... clothes, lots of food, all she needs.
- But not what's gonna make her happy.
- She's not gonna be happy.

















And please, Phil was ready soon.






"These little round peas touch my heart."






- Nope. For the first time in his life, Jim said something meaningful.
If you want a man, you have to get him the way everyone else does.
If that's the way, I don't need any of them.













What a beautiful dress.


















































































I'm gonna scream some old nebrassian swearing.




How am I gonna do that, honey?



Sister, the place where I last caused the rain... now bears the name Starbuck.



So I take out my big wheel and my spinning drum... and my hat with three feathers, I look up at the sky and I say,








And when I left, I turned around... and saw the most beautiful colors in the sky.






















I'll give you better reasons, sweet Lizzie.























We got his description, but we need a picture.


































But you don't need one.





But the biggest one is the flood.

- He's demanding a big ride.





Look, friends, a call to rain requires a lot of confidence.














- That's right. What do I want from you... you see my little old van over there?
I have a big Turkish drum in this van.







Jim, you're gonna be my first assistant.













Well, it's too bad you don't have a mule on the farm.












He can't make me look more stupid than I am.











Mr., you're not gonna miss it, even if it's the last thing I'm gonna do.
























Nice dress, by the way.





































I've seen better blessings, sweet Lizzie.

You don't have to tell him where you're hurting or whining.























































Wow, you'd think it was the first time you'd ever held paint.


























What do you want in Lizzie's underwear chest?













































Look, Jimmy... if you want to get in the middle of something... all you have to do is pick up the phone and call her back.

That's all you have to do.

















- Someone had to do that.













Noah hints that I, Lizzie, made some big mistake about you.




She's a very nice girl. Good mistress, bright head... very decent.














You don't have to take any lessons.












And then I'm gonna get myself a bunch of new dresses... with this cut.




You need to hide who you are.










Oh, no, don't tickle me... or little Lizzie's gonna make a mess right away and...
















































Wow, that's not good with the eye.



I'm glad to hear it from you.






































Too many people are lonely... and if you're lucky enough to be needed... as a friend... that's your duty.


















- She must have been beautiful.
- Yes, she's beautiful.











Maybe the teacher needed her, but you didn't.
- Of course I needed her.




























It's so beautiful and purple.













To think what a lovely tie it is.










































She's the smartest girl in the world... she's beautiful, and that's the worst lie ever.
You know she's not beautiful, she's stupid!






















Because you don't know what's beautiful and what's not.













You're gonna be an old maid.

The old maiden.





But it wasn't that bad until he named it.
The old maiden.
Why is it so much worse when you name it?



- Lizzie, honey, please.



Jim is getting married... and one day even Noah is getting married.

I'm gonna bring presents to their kids to make sure I'm welcome... and Noah's gonna say,
























































I need a name that included all the heavens and the power of a man.


























Good night, Starbuck.














- that Melisanda... was very beautiful, and she had long wavy hair... which is why every time he looked at her... he just fell and died of love.










You've taken a lot of stories that I've read in a hundred different places... and turned them into one big, fat, ridiculous lie.










Small, modest dreams that come to a woman when... she polishes silverware and puts it in the cupboards of naphthalene.

























You have to believe it first.




All true women are beautiful.











- You'll be beautiful.










"I'm beautiful."



- I'm beautiful.
- Beautiful.

I'm beautiful.

Because when you said you were beautiful... it was true.































- No, Big Brother, I'm not drunk.








I fucking did it for myself because I'm a big boy.




- Crazy, little dumb...


- right into your old evil face.



- Big brother, you're wrong.













































You called her an old maid.
You took away the last bit of hope she had.

I didn't ask her where she was going, but I'm glad she left.


They could get to know each other better... before you know it, I'll have a new brother.






















































































And if you go in there and throw a little shadow... at the brightest moment of Lizzie's life... I swear, I'll follow you with a whip!
















































































No, just a little piece of cloud swam in front of the moon...











Yes, darling?

























































































We don't need to look at her.

































You're beautiful now.
But you're gonna come with me... and you're gonna be so beautiful, you're gonna shine the world.










I need to be Lizzie.

























For the first time in my life, it's raining!




























Is that old grunt still alive?



Dinner will be ready as soon as you wash.


















Good night, Aunt Martha.
Good night, Marty.

Good night.
Good night.













It's beautiful.
- Ethan, she's still small.

It's not very expensive.































No one's heard of stealing pigs. I bet.










































Old Moose knows.














Thank you very much.




















Thank you very much.







And you don't have to call me "sir."






























Horses need to rest and eat.








- Lucy, we don't need a lamp yet.












Like a little mouse.


























































But the comanches believe he needs eyes to get into spiritland.




































































All of you, I don't need you.







































































































But I forgot how beautiful she is.




It needs to be fixed.




We women wash clothes, and even mine while you're little.



















































- Good night, Marty.
- Good night, Laurie.























































He's got a little factor on the Brass River.
Laurie, I need to get a horse.









I'm not gonna be an old maid.




We need to talk.

















































Good night.
Good night.


























- Glad to be of service.











"Dear Miss Laurie."



"Dear Miss Laurie.


That means Fatterman's dead, darling.

























I don't need it.


















"a little Indian squaw."








How old does he think I am?


Looks like Mrs. Paulie's gonna be a great wife to you.



























We needed meat, so we circled around them on foot.









Why did the soldiers have to kill her?

We're gonna have to pick them up. Maybe Deby's with them.





















































I don't need money, Ethan.

Just the roof over Moose's poor old head.





















































I don't need blood money.













































I don't want your property.



































You two have a lot to talk about.





















Glad you're back alive, Ethan.


























I bet she's not the first squaw you...

Marty, you're back to the old one.















































Yeah, Nurse Ergenson, it was a lovely wedding party. Considering no one's married.














I need Captain Clayton.
























Colonel Greenhill wants to know how fast the company can be ready to join the campaign against the comanches?



































































































But, at the first signs of anxiety, we perform.






















If you don't hear my first signal, you better read my mind. Because I don't give orders twice.



























- What do you need...




































- Big help, mister.















Be ready, Mr. Greer.








I'm happy to help.



We'd feel a lot more comfortable if you'd come with us.






- I'm happy to help if I can.

It's not the first difficulty that happens to us on the way.









And the biggest space we've ever seen was in our backyard.





























Yeah, it's just fine.













































All you have to do then is stick to the right side of the river and follow the current.

Nice to meet you.





























Red skin doesn't need me.




























































































Good night.










Good night, Mrs Greer.




















Good night, Sheriff.






You see, being a sheriff is a big problem.





















































Any woman will be happy next to you.




You think I love him less because he's like that?

You made a big mistake, Mrs Greer.





















Mr. Greer... how did you get married to such a beautiful woman?













And then one day, a tall and handsome gentleman came along and made her feel good.






















I'm damned if you don't remind me of that tall, handsome gentleman you were talking about.






Good night.
Good night, Sheriff.







Good night, Sheriff.
I said good night.















Good night.
Good night, Mrs Greer.
























































I'd be willing to offer a good amount of information equal to her.
When a man with a good sum... suppose, of course, that it was you, would be willing to pay?








Thank you very much.







































What I need to give.







































































































Be ready anytime, Sheriff. I think you made a wise decision, Mrs Greer.
California is a beautiful place.
























This gentleman is the new head of the company, John T. Blessington,











Friends, my first task as your new chairman is sad.






We, the International Projects family, have a little gift for you as a token of our gratitude.


Thank you very much.





















































In a company this size, it doesn't count as a big salary.









Thank you very much.
I'm glad you're satisfied.
We're always happy...
























I think the wages are too high.




























No matter where I go, Miss Partridge, International Projects... will always mean a lot to me.


















































You know, this was my first stockholders meeting.







































- That's very nice of you.












Yeah, I need an immediate assessment of basic installation equipment... from John Thompson, Williamson, Transcontinental Corp...
















Yes. Well, isn't there a lot of small theatres outside Broadway... you know, groups...












But I played small parts, painted decorations, cleaned fish.







Thank you so much for...














































At the end of the day, we need a radical...

















Do you need her here with your questions when we announce a stock options deal, huh?







- Keep calling, it's important.













Miss Partridge, may I introduce Mr. Harry Harkness, the new member of our board of directors?

- It's so good to see you.

Aren't shareholders choosing new directors?































Well, if you really need me...
We need you very much, don't we, gentlemen?















Miss Partridge, it's good to see you on board.

















It's beautiful.
Of course, I wasn't expecting anything... big like your office right away.

















- Now I'm ready to work.

















We're so glad you're working for us.







































































- Dear Jimmy.







Dear Jimmy.















Damn, it's good to hear from you again.














We don't understand why we didn't get any new government orders this year.















Well, Laura proved she's a great worker.

Dear Mother.





















We need someone from Texas.
It's a big state.











Still, Mr. Blessington told us to start a company of new friends.







- Glad you like it, Mr. Blessington.



Part of our new publicity campaign.




















That's why I'm such a lucky driver.












I'm glad you're sure of him.
















We don't need tips from shareholders.

























I found our babies picking up a clockmaker from New England.



























It's good to see you, sir. McKeever.



I have to go to Blessington.






- Why do you need it?






Oh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... McKeever, I'm so glad...






Very nice.

















- I've got to go to Blessington's office.









Oh, you remember that first meeting I came to?








Very important.



Of course I did. And that's the kind of personal approach we needed.





"Dear Miss Partridge, thank you for writing.











That's not what an undisguised stockmaker needs.

"Dear Mrs. Rogers, I answer your question:
















I have an important lunch meeting.












Well, you're the first cover of Newswick I've ever met in person.




- Made you so important and busy.



I spend most of my time on the Senate Committee answering questions.







Only a man will try to sneak up into the sky like 10 others are ready to stop him.



















































































































I wanted to say something, but you were so happy at work.




































































And tell him that first thing in the morning, I want to see him!






Laura, how many women's forms do you think we need?



My kind colonel, I was extremely pleased to have you..."





















































She's always complained that the decline in dividends hurts her dear shareholders.


















The board of directors has decided to entrust you with a very important and sensitive task.



That's how Laura flew to Washington to help her company and small shareholders. And, in the meantime, take another approach to her beautiful prince.











I can't tell you about the new equipment until the Senate reports the new allocation.





























































I'm glad you're here.













I was happy to help.
























It certainly motivated me... to devote more time to one thing and less to the other.


















It's an old rag.
- It's brand-new and darling.

- Not at all. - And new perfumes.



- New hat, shoes.











You want a deal?







I don't need any deal.
- You don't need any?
- I do, but not under these circumstances.






- We really need you.













- So everything's ready?
- Ready?










Well, what would you like to see first?











But I really have to catch the last plane.







I'm very happy to stay at your hotel.













Good night.


















































So, first thing in the morning, we're gonna sneak out of the hotel quietly.



Good night, McKeever.



Good night, Laura, try to sleep.






















You see the first footage of McKeever leaving his hotel in Washington this morning.

























Now, ladies, let me tell you about the double shade, the new hair paint that can turn you into a mystery woman.





We've been living on a tree for the last 24 hours.



I suggest we look at the front page.






























































































































Then you're making a big mistake.








Here's the last one.






























































































A man needs more than money.
A man has to go to work. The job he loves.
And he needs a house to go back to. Where he's happy.
But if he has nowhere to go to work, how can he go back to the house where he's... happy if he's been at home all day?





- Let's say I start a new company.





















"Dear Miss Partridge, how are you?


I took very expensive pills, but I think health is more expensive.






"Dear Miss Partridge, I am pleased to inform you that my husband is much better.












































- Yeah, it's fine.












































I admit that lately... the dividends have not been as high as we would have liked.






























































Mr. Chairman, we're trying to hold democratic meetings, but I doubt very much that these lovely... people have enough votes to outweigh our 1,600,000.





















































And then our Cinderella and her beautiful prince went home to their luxurious palace on Long Island.



















































































































To do that, you had to use a blade as sharp as a catalog.












I need to talk to her.






































































































































We have to wait for further instructions.


Bad news, one by one. We still don't know who the monsters are in the mine. And now, the eruption of Mount Aso!








































Are we ready to attack?














Photos ready.




They seem too happy for suicide.













If Mr. Kawabata can do more, we can find something else.
The bed's ready.




















The big egg was here.



























Besides, we've calculated the power and strength Rhodan needs to fly.






































He needs to be surrounded before he takes off! Yes, sir!

























To close the entrance to the cave, the first infantry attack will destroy the volcano's crater by crossfire.



















Let me know when the infantry is ready for the first attack. The first attack corps!
Report when you're ready to attack.
I'm calling the infantry building for the first attack. Let me know when you're ready to attack!








First Corps is ready! Open fire!










Second Corps, everything's ready! Second Corps is ready for attack!












Good to see you.










It's hard for him to believe that I used to be as handsome as Adonis.




I was at my first high school reunion, and then I told Ramsen I'd only come for my anniversary - 10 years, 15 years, and so on.



A sad old bachelor, huh?



I'm gonna get pictures of my new factory this afternoon, and I'm gonna show you.

















All the onions you planted last October... they're fine, but I need some blue flowers in the garden.
















But it didn't work. Terrible, you know... I can't do my first job in my life.













We need to find time for the fitting.







No, that was really nice.
































That's sweet.





















How much do you need to put on a dress?






Of course, at home... I've barely been home in the last 10 years.


























Take your skirt to your room. And see if you can move in it. You need to get used to it.
Then go for a walk. It's such a beautiful day.

Oh, I'm always happy to see you.


No, you're not late. I'm going to the club. I need to call home.





Beautiful.
I'll see you at the first hole.


What a beautiful day!
I'm glad you kicked me out.












Do you need someone to wear your golf clubs?




These guys are willing to die for love or something.




























The first time I tried cooking was the night the maid had the day off.



























Hey, Mr. Reynolds! I'm gonna call you a word, and then I'm gonna call you three. And you have to choose from them the one that most corresponds to the first.

Okay, the first word is beauty.












You need to answer all these questions and then calculate the result.




However, if anyone wants to make a practical test of my masculinity, I'm ready.




































































Nothing, darling.


That would be great, but I've already invited some boys to take a break with us this summer.

No, of course not, darling.




We need him on the team next year.











I'm gonna say it again! I don't need a voyeur gang here who stays in my room all the time.
Al, do we need these peepers coming out of the window every day?
























































Oh, great!











Are you ready?



Big Pajama Battle, huh?


You know, the year I was a rookie here, the new guys were stronger than the old folks. And a few of us lost our pajamas! You know, you need to cut your hair short.














You've got a big spot right here. Yeah?

















































































She's a beautiful girl, Bill.














You know, when he was a kid, we had a maid.





He had every chance to be! From the youngest age, summer camps for boys, boarding schools.







I need him first and foremost for that. But he's making it very difficult for me.



















Okay, darling.










The first victory we win over Hanover every year. All the newbies will wear their pajamas, and the old folks will try to rip them off.
























I told you to stay away from the boys, big and little.

























Okay, then it'll be the first thing you do on Monday morning.
















We'll take you by taxi, sister! You better be ready for quarter-eight! Isn't that enough for you to answer your own question?



















Bill ready?













Are you ready? Yes.

















We'll be back right after dinner and we can go to the Great Fire.



Now, before I go... do you need anything?


















Yeah, sure, that's a big disappointment for Tom.




















































Don't you need sweetheart's pajamas?




























Plays first base.








Listen, Dad, I have to run.










It's the last day you can change your mind, and I wanted him to know.



















It takes a lot of courage - not physical courage, but moral courage - to do it.

It means just destroying him... as much as this school can do, or maybe even more.























Because you're big, and you're strong, and you're a good athlete? What do they call a cool guy and a great attacker?






















Do you need him?
























































































Are you saying you don't have to prove anything to anyone?

Anyway, that's a bad idea.





















He wanted my scalp! 'Cause I gave him a D with a minus on the final exam. Yes...




Oh, that's very nice of you, darling!























You have to go.
























That's not good.



The last time the team captain lived with us was eight years ago.













Yes, darling, of course.
And, Laura, you don't have to see Tom so often. And invite him to tea, all the time, just him. Yes, darling.














I don't know why you need it.










You're a real little gentleman today, aren't you?










Beautiful flowers.




























I'm really glad you didn't.


He's ready.





















My first husband.













I'm sorry... but I'm glad to hear about him.
Glad to meet you?




















Nevertheless, he should have died happy.




- I have to. It must be a very important commitment.













Ah, that's cute!
That wasn't nice.












Whenever she needed someone to send him on a mission, it was me.







































It wasn't easy for me - the first year here in this school, and you seem to feel it.









































Hello, darling!









Nothing, darling.











When I settled here, I thought this place should be decorated.



I... I think it's very nice.
Yeah, that's nice.

A cup of coffee and radio is the first thing I want when I come here.


I saw such a beautiful radio on Meyers the other day.

















I'll tell you, it's... it's taking me to the right condition.































Don't tell me I'm the first girl you ever kissed.























































































I need to talk to you.


































Because he needs love.






















At the last moment, I sent him away.












The first time you married that boy... and again, you miserable, pathetic boy.
You want to be a mother to a boy, you don't need a man's love.





































Tom, honey, you don't have to think that... what else do I have to think?

















Tom... one day you'll meet a girl and realize she's the one you need.



Thank you very much.











































Dear Tom... I guess I'll never send you this letter.



Tom, honey, I just read your book-- your novel about your school days-- about us.
It's a beautiful book. Nice, romantic, and touching. And it depicts me as some kind of saint.


At the end of the story, you wrote that your husband lived a much better life alone and that the wife went to meet her own happy life.













Dear Tom, I was so happy to read about you getting married.
















Thank you very much.
All right, you ready, Jack?







































































Hello, darling!






Of course, sweetheart.



They're beautiful.












Frankie's first ballroom performance. Mom!







You haven't changed since the first day I...

Yeah, honey?






Coming, darling.

Marion, when was the last time we were in the theater?






I'll explain to our little primadonna that her mother dedicated her whole life to her. Well, part of it.









I need the money.




















Coming, darling.




One second, sweetheart.



It's all set. You just need to warm up. Selma!


Why, darling?












Mrs. Rogers, do you need two tickets to the Royal concert?









































What a beautiful house.






















I wanted my first play to be Broadway.











I'll let you in on a little secret.



















There's little granules in the pipe - when it's heated, there's smoke.












Last model.











Big hopes for the guy.






We were walking around the floors along Redondo Beach and there was an old Italian scarman playing a melody...














You're happy, aren't you?

Of course I'm happy.





























Cliff, it was a lovely evening.











Frankie's a big success, too.

Good night, sweetheart.
Good night.
All new designs in this portfolio, Mr. Groves.















I'm glad you liked Rex.







I'd love to, too, Mr. Andrews. Goodbye, sir.






I'm gonna need more compresses.








Of course you will, sweetheart.





Come on, honey, let me help you.

Okay. I'm glad it's nothing serious.

We have to leave early in the morning.

















I'll send Andrews a telegram. I'll meet you in L.A. this week. No, darling.



You look so good in your new jacket.


Yes, sweetheart!




See, honey?













What a beautiful jacket!




































It's like I made my first touchdown.




























Good night, Cliff.





Good night.
Good night.

Of course! He'll be glad to see us.











































Mr. Andrews is an old friend from San Francisco. One of the biggest owners of supermarkets.
They're meeting about Dad's new toy.
















Sixty-first.



















































I'm glad I stayed.






















It was such a happy house.
Yes. So happy.



















Good to see you, Anne. Hello!
Honey.








Even a little rest is good.


Yeah, honey. Mr. Andrews signed?




I'm glad I stayed.


Nope. No, I met an old friend.


































































It's not like that. A very handsome young man.















I don't want to be late for my first meeting with Marion.









I hope I'm as beautiful as my mom when I grow up.
Sweetheart, a lovely compliment from your own daughter!







Beautiful. First trip?











Cliff, honey, you know how she feels about dessert.



































It must be nice to be a good ballerina.



























And thank you for a lovely evening.






























Goodbye, sweetheart. Thank you for a lovely dinner.






Good night, Mrs. Rogers.
Good night.

It was a disgusting night. Oh, honey, not at all!







I invited an old friend to our house to meet my family.





















I wish I knew what you were talking about, honey, maybe I could help.




Of course, children are always more important than I am.



Every day something new. Life was an adventure, and now...
Honey, constant adventures are very tedious.
Cliff, honey, don't stay there long, you'll catch a cold.


Cliff! Honey, open me some hand cream, please.







Cliff, excitement and success aren't as important to a woman as it is to a man, they don't rule out the possibility of being alone.




She doesn't have what a woman needs.
She's successful in a big job, but today I was proud and grateful for my children, my home, and of course for you, darling.

Honey, turn off the lights, please.


















































Miss Vale, I need your advice.






I must congratulate you, my dear.

Godly. A special place for special people. What L.A. always needed.
Goodbye, my dear, and congratulations again.










Oh, Marion, you're beautiful.










I'm sorry, too, because you're beautiful in it.











































































The city must be beautiful.




I'm happily married to 738 Madison Avenue,













We need to talk.





















This is our first trip to America.






Honey, I love you.













Okay, honey, okay. Why are you standing here?


Well done. Sweetheart, take this to Mrs. Rogers.

























































































In Palm Valley, two old friends ran into each other by accident.














I'm not. No one paid attention! Because he's a nice, caring and good man.















When you're young and in love, nothing matters but your own joy.

You start to understand what's important and what's not.
And for your father, the most important thing, believe me, is his family's happiness.










But I'd like to see a doll ready.











Remember that place with the ocean view? Where did we celebrate my first contract?























But you have a beautiful life with Marion and the kids.






When are you gonna hear about the first professional performance by young dancer Francis Groves?














First love.



Be happy, Cliff.
You'll be happy.
















I've learned a lot in the last 24 hours. And I realized what it's like to really love someone.











You're still a little girl.




Gloria, honey, the question is, can a guy like me love a basketball player forever?














I need cologne.






I'm glad.





New!


Hello, darling.


I've been worried about you for days.






It's such a beautiful couple, isn't it?










I've got to go to Vozirar Street.


You know, you gotta get tickets.









I can't do any more.







































































They're worse than cops, cops from the cops.



















We're looking for a guy. He's on a small boat stealing coal.



























Look, do you need a replacement for Lithambo?



































I need to be kissed.





































































Last time I ate pork kidneys was a year ago at my sister's Golden Coast.






























You think I'm cuter than your wife's pork kidneys?


















It's much quieter.






































There's nothing wrong with living on Plevo Street. Nice quiet street.




It's not that big a difference.





I don't need a handout.








































































Can you hear me? I need 2,000, damn it, Janbier!



Janbier, I need 2,000!










































































































Okay, your suitcases, my beautiful Marcel,




































































Come on, handsome, give me my little prince.





















































































































All right, all the worse.



Good night.







Things are bad, Marietta.









- That's nice.













































































































Don't say that, Martin, the lady was so happy.













































To see. That's why I went with you, my dear.




























Same thing with rich people, like Janbier, who's gonna take off his last pants so he doesn't get pissed off.
And the poor are ready to take off their last pants.























All the worse for you, old man. If they don't come, you won't be well.


- For risk, too. - Not at all. You shouldn't have trusted the first person you met.

































I don't need your coffee.

































I don't want that pork!
























It's nice at the hotel, though.









You're too old.



















I'm very happy.


Beautiful pig. Isn't it?









I'd like to ask you, Mr. Grangel, there's a big pig here.





































































































- Do you need a porter?







































In the little yard that was in front of me, they took a walk, it seemed, without any observation - three well-dressed men.











































As far as I'm concerned, I've decided to run at the earliest opportunity.

I ate for the first time in four days.










I left the first floor forever and settled in cell 107 at the top.





























You don't know how much I need.















You have to work to keep your mind.

























I should have cracked a part of the frame, but I had to get a new spoon that I could push harder.





















































If I need to come back tomorrow.






The chief of security and his assistant slept on the ground floor.









When are you sick?


















12 meters of ropes that can withstand a man is what I needed.

The first piece of rope I built from the waist.











































We need hooks, Fontan.









He was hoping for a new life.
For a new life?

"A man will have a new life..." "I'll write these lines down for you.

Nicodemus said, "How can a man be born again if he is old?"










You have to be careful.














The test showed that both hooks and loops could withstand a great deal of weight.























It's designed to be moved from the first wall to the second.






































I'm ready.

















































We've done a lot of stupid things.









My big hook would be the most effective weapon, but just so cold-bloodedly kill the boy;

































































- She's very small, very beautiful.
My mom was very pretty, too.












Tomorrow. Tomorrow's the last time.


My last instruction if I die.



I wrote everything I had to do to run.









































Within two hours, the rope was ready and tested.





One with shoes, the other with jackets, the third with a large rope and hooks, the fourth with a soft rope designed to go down to the place where the clock passes.

It took more than 20 minutes to reach the end of a site connected to a small yard.



























Time was ticking. Less and less chance of success.











It's a beautiful sight. Beautiful men.

















Don't forget, Pierre, the doors of this house are always open to you. The Rostovs are always ready to be your family.






So many beautiful young men go to war... to die.








In Austria, they make the most beautiful bracelets.




She'll stay with us. Of course, I remember, although the last time I saw her, she was much younger.

Isn't he great? Who would have thought Mom and Dad would have such beautiful kids?



Petya, women's words must always be treated with humor.

It's too bad I'm too young...






It's so easy for men: all you have to do is make a decision, and it's all at your feet.






Well done, sweetheart.




We're always happy to see you.
























Fifty is a big loser. Get down from there, you bastard!










I'm ready. Just like that, don't give me any money.







I guess you need to freshen up first.















I'm a sin, Lord, but I have a perfect excuse for it.









































Why are you leaving? I'm married to one of Moscow's most beautiful and worthy women, but I can't stand this marriage.

And if it's necessary, get married when you're old and you're not good for anything. Otherwise, all noble and good in you will perish.



















































Say hello to Lisa, she'll be very happy.
































I guess she needs a rest.



































He was far from the best. Well, it doesn't matter.






But if I find out you weren't acting like Nikolai Bolkonsky's son, it's gonna get worse.














You're happy to leave! You're happy to get rid of me!






Mademoiselle, I'd like to offer you a million rubles to paint my portrait.
Pierre! But with one condition: I must be as good as this horse.






























We need to put her on the list.





















To be tall, proud, beautiful, cold, to let men fall at my feet.



Be happy, dear Pierre.
I command you to be infinitely happy!





















And before the battle, there's nothing more important than getting a good night's sleep.










There's gonna be peace, and then there's a new war.

Only the final battle is important.









Here's a beautiful death.





It's very early. We've decided to go to the village, so we've got a lot of shopping to do.









It's possible. What happens if part of Poland leaves the other side and Austria has a new ruler?





It's gonna be so much fun and fun in Moscow! - Pierre... - What, darling?
















If only you knew how much I had to do! I'm gonna have to make a dozen new dresses and shoes and everything...


Nothing, darling.









































I'm terribly glad you're my brother.











Ah, I'm so glad to see you!

























Pierre? He lives in the village for the most part now.








That's right. Let's drink to the health of beautiful women!
Yes, to the health of beautiful women! Pierre?

Look, it's a new song about General Kutuzov.





All set?


We need to pull the trigger. Right here. Beautiful.









Thank you so much for protecting my honor! You were told Dolokhov was my lover, and you believed me!















































Will you come with us, Pierre? We gotta get out of here before the moon comes in!




How long do we have to wait for Nikolai? I'm so glad you finally made up your mind.





















It's a pleasure to meet you.







The weather is beautiful.
We'd be very happy if you... I mean, I'm sure you'll like it.




Beautiful!
I'm glad you stayed, Andrei.

The Rostovs are very nice, aren't they?
Honeys. They're very interesting to watch. They're like a special race - beautiful, healthy, funny, thoughtless animals.




Then she's gonna be even nicer, but she's not gonna be Rostov anymore.


































I thought someone had given me a huge, beautiful gift.





It's like listening to beautiful music and you know that the next song or song after that is gonna be the most beautiful song of your life.









If I'm bored and arrogant, no one's gonna think this is my first ball.




















Excuse me, darling. Nikolai, stay with your mom.


I shouldn't have come.





















I'm very glad to see you again.

Pierre, it's very good to see you.




This is my first ball in two years.
I'm really glad you came.
I mean, after that hunt, Mom and Dad were very happy to see you and hoped you'd visit us again.






















Mom, I really need to talk to you!






I had a cousin, a handsome young man, very handsome.




But you have to be able to wait.
...waiting a long time, waiting until you're offered.
He's still coming. The last time he came, I knew the offer was ready to break off his lips...














No, honey. Pray to God.


How happy I am!

Yeah, honey.


















It's a happy and respectable family.



You need to raise your son.





And in a year's time, there's love, passion, stubbornness, whatever you want, so big, then get married.
And that's my last word. You know, the last one.
Am I, Natasha, to be the wife of this strange, sweet, intelligent man, respected even by my father?

Is it true you can't joke with your life anymore, now I'm big, now I'm responsible for every word?





I'm so happy...















I'm so happy! There's a whole life ahead of you!



I'm so ready to do whatever they want, so ready to love him for being his father.

It's a pleasure.






















As you can see, I'm not ready to entertain you.






Sweet Natasha, I'm glad my brother found happiness.


You're glad you decided to come out, and you didn't stay home?









You have to write about it to Andrea.



We need to say hello.

It's so good to see you. It was boring without you here.








Natasha, honey, come on.



















Six, seven weeks ago? I thought, "What a lovely girl."





























Honey, we can't do this right now.





Sweet Natasha, my destiny is to be loved by you or die.











I'm glad.


Sonia, you should know how happy I am!















But it doesn't matter. But now he's got a reason.






























































Do you need satisfaction?












He wasn't good for you? You're not? You're ready to run after the player and the liar, the most famous wolf in all of Moscow!

























And if you need help, advice, you're just gonna have to pour your soul out to someone. Not now, but when it's clear in your heart, remember me.
I'm happy to be of service to you...






If I weren't me, but the handsomest, smartest and best man in the world and free, I'd be on my knees asking for your hand and love.







It's bad, it's bad. Nonsense.
The comet is beautiful.
Life is beautiful!








Your Majesty still has the opportunity to save mankind from the scourge of a new war."



















































And they want every last Frenchman to be banished from the land of Russia!







































There's people out there. You need men, not babies.









He was the first person in the whole world who didn't like me, Pierre.




























He was old.


















The first thing you should know about the battle is that on the night before, everyone who has to take part in it is always a little excited.





















I don't need to tell you all this.











She's gonna get us everything we need: comfortable apartments and a quick return to the country.










































Master, behind the trees comes a large group of enemy infantry.





The cavalry must go first and clear the way.














We stood up against the worst that Napoleon had to offer.
























Procophie! Bet all the beaters on the first subway!


















You don't have to, promise me.










There's a new obsession with the wounded! Officer?



















Honey...
















Take this terrible table off. We're leaving him. We don't need him.












Are you ready to leave them here for some furniture? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,




Of course you're right, honey.




I'm ready, Ilya.



Sweet Moscow, everyone's leaving you.















































I'm ready to take the keys to the city.


























Dad, I need to talk to you.







































































But why did they shoot these poor people? The last 20 years.



















































































Come here, sweetheart.










Did he get any worse?
















Yeah, I'm really excited about Nikolushka.








He's a very handsome boy.




That's it, you don't have to cry.


I had a beautiful dream.










We've become masters of the capital of the largest country in the world! We don't even have to feed the civilian population, but I keep getting reports like this!










































That word is always ready to get off your lips!






































It's easier to move your legs, 'cause you're so numb. You didn't need them before.







































Last fight.











This is our last fight, and we will spare no effort.



















































I've loved you since the first time I saw you.




































The first flight into space ended in a disaster?

Henry Jaffy, the navigator of the XRM ship, reported in his last message that the ship was approaching planet Mars.





























Here's the first destination, John.





My creditors will be insanely happy.




- All set?

























































Beautiful.









Not bad, but we're gonna need some help with the repairs.










- We're ready to leave.



























- Do you think we should go there?







I should have known when I saw the web.




















































The last date I found was 2188.
Even this tape looks very old.





Let's just say that 2188 was the last year.










































































No, it's a new kind of metal.













































































If you come in peace, you don't need a weapon.



































If you'd like, he'd be happy to show you our power plants, our labs.

Is she as beautiful as women in your world?




















When you get to know our world here, maybe you'll agree it's not that bad.



This young female employee, she's very beautiful, but she's not like the ones we saw here.










Do you think all the women here are as beautiful as the ones we saw?

























They don't have one important component.










You don't have to grovel.



The water is pouring automatically, and it's the right temperature.
























Isn't that right, sweetheart?

Beautiful eyes, nice figure.









We'll study old books together.




















I'll need to consult the Council.








But everything else we need from nature's treasure is oil.



Our people have been through a lot of trouble.









































































I have to go.



Garnet promised me he'd show me an old tunnel that'd take us to the mountains.






I'm glad to see our old man is feeling better.



But today I have a unique experience. I was flattered, pleased, I felt welcome to beautiful women who fought for my attention.


The moon, it's so beautiful.










I think you're beautiful.
It's prettier than...











Well, honey, don't look at me like that.




You're beautiful, Dina.


Forgive me, darling.





I was a little girl, but my mom told me...







The first thing we have to do is get to the surface.











And poor, low-blooded little creatures.

The world is big.




Yeah, we need these people.






































They need them for work.










Hello, darling.
You ready, Johnny?







And you don't have to fight anymore.

If your people agree to join us, we'll welcome their help, but we won't ask for it.







Your children need the sun.








- They say they need a weapon.








This argument, it's a standoff, it's new to me...







































































I'm old.






































Are you okay, darling?





















That's not necessary.
You don't have to, Dina?














It's an old-fashioned bazooka.






- Okay, is everything ready?






For a long time now, the leader has been a charming guy named Naga, who is also sweet and loving as a mad dog.





Your masters have given us everything we need.










































- Don't you think we should send her back?







After the last shot, they laughed and ran away.







Maybe they're in the big caves.












Yeah, it's bad, but it could be worse.







































Look, we've got to get the water running first.






Wherever I look, I see new miracles.







Ready?







But as long as there are kids who need him, he'll be happy.












I'll let you decide whether it sounds better or worse in Latin.

































































































Anyway, it was the last night.




































































I need to finish up here.






























My new experiment.



























They've become so ferocious that they need to be kept separate.




















































Look, Professor, you don't have to...

You don't have to pretend.










































































We don't have to see anything and figure it out.













All you have to say is that Irene went out and didn't come back.





























































- Of course, darling.





















But every time I think about it... That human resources manager is telling me I'm too old.
Too old?













Thank you very much.








I really need this job.


































Your office is completely ready.


















That's not necessary, Mr. Crabtree,
Your work is important and confidential.
And the less you know about her, the less you want to talk about her to someone.






Goodbye and thank you very much.









I'm sure it all makes sense, darling.

Efficiency, new techniques.















Bye, darling.
































As incredible as it sounds, I need you.
I need a loyal, honest employee to do one important job.


































A few years ago, I married a woman whose first husband we thought died.

For the last five years, I've paid for his silence a sum you can't imagine.









But you can't guarantee that I won't blackmail you, or worse, I won't go to the police.


Dear Mr. Crabtree, what can you tell them?











I have a copy of my answer if you need it.







I have one, almost ready.


A pointless set of words that is sent to me for an unexplained reason, despite the fact that I don't need this service.











You must have noticed that this office, which I've been choosing for so long, is so small and small that anyone who's not at the table must be standing where I am right now.








Not once in the last 18 months, he didn't think to open the envelope when he received it.













Go to bed, darling, it's almost 3:00.
Yes, darling, now.
You need to rest, or you'll be useless tomorrow at the office.


















Parasites like you need to be destroyed.












































I don't think we should call them names.














I'll be back next week to tell you a new story.
Good night.




























But it's the only thing I haven't tried yet, and I need to have something.






















Honey, just tell him what happened.



Honey, did you forget that we came up with something to tell you?
Mr. Burrows, I've been working for your company for three years and for the last four months I've been working half-time to help keep the case afloat.

You got the money and I need it. You have to pay me now.
Well, honey, you remembered that perfectly one night... when you drank too much drinks, you were gonna go see him.


- Honey, I'm not mad at you.




Sweetheart, it's not gonna get any worse.









- Goodbye, sweetheart, good luck.

































No, we need that money now.







Just $450. I don't need any more.







You're the last person I...



















Honey, what's that about?





























Honey, I'm already involved.








Darling, of course, with you.

I'm ready.





If he wants you, why doesn't he just come here?













I'll come, darling, I promise.







- What do you want?


- What do you want?


























Are you okay?


- Yeah, that would be great.














Money is the last thing I care about.















- Do you need help?




















And he gave me the money. He was very nice.





I shouldn't have stolen them.






It wouldn't be wise to disappoint Big Brother.
















I'm glad my passions found a way out.












If I go through these thoughts enough, they could become a new story.


























Good night, darling.







Honey, I'm even hungry.















I'll do myself a big favor if I turn around right now and go home.






































Honey, the way the Blanchards live, it's none of our business.

He was the first one to sneak into our house.




Sorry, honey.









Of course, darling.

















- Charles. I need friends...














You've ruined my career for the last time.
For the last time.









You have no idea how happy I am to see you.
You're very nice, just like I imagined.






























Looks like a big bag.






































Don't worry, honey.




























What a lovely thing.












Ellen, I'm sorry to intrude on your life, but are you happy?



Of course, he's annoying, a little nervous, keeping an eye on me, sometimes even watching me too closely, but if you get to know him better, he's cute.














Charles is about to come to lunch, and I need to be home.










































You're laughing, darling.















The last drop.




She was so cute.












Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm late for one small event.





























But it's so bad this time.



















Honey, what do you do when you're out of work, it's your business.














I know you think it's a pity to keep such a beautiful thing in such a dirty and ripped state.











They look at us and remember that there are more important things than getting lunch ready in time.





- Please, this is important to me.






But I need something to fill a gap when you're on a job or on a trip or supporting clients, don't you think?



It's really very important to the agency.



- Isn't that nice?




Sure, we do, sweetheart, even more than we used to.










Honey, you need to get through this difficult period.
I know it's true, but... but there's something else, much worse.








Honey, we're just gonna get to know each other.


Honey, this isn't a witty conversation.







- Hi, I'm so glad you both made it.

- Beautiful dress.







Yeah, honey, they're in the office. I won't hold him for more than a minute.


She's full of weirdos, darling, and if you smile nicely at them, someone will tell you what his analyst ate for lunch.




You're not gonna be, are you, darling?




























Well, it's just a little simple martini.












It's okay, honey, really.














There wasn't a drop here, the last one I mixed for you.








When I see you with another woman, when I see you dancing with her, something inside me explodes, and I think I need a drink or I'll do something terrible.
Karen, you need to stop thinking about this.
All a man needs is a simple and honest girl who loves him.






































Will you have ginger ale, darling?


Renee, darling, we're leaving.







































You don't need as much as I do.








I'll tell you what, we can start on Lex and then go there... - then back, and end up in a little bar - I know one on Third.
You know, this could be the beginning of a beautiful friendship.


- No, I need a record.














Let me take you home. Sweetheart.








I must have been really bad, or Jeff would never have left me in this place.










What an interesting thumb.






I've got some ready towels.










The first anniversary.......................................
It's a little gift for her.






What a beautiful, perfect, ringing name for the mantel shelves.


What did your husband give you for your first anniversary, Mrs Halliday?

Tell me, darling, what is it?



Mark, it doesn't matter what it is.





















I don't know, sir. You need to ask Mr. Harrison.









































She wasn't the one you wanted.
And you met the one you wanted, Debbie.













Dinner's ready?

























It's a huge loss.

I remember the first time I saw her on a beach in Shell Harbor, in the rain.
That old yellow macintosh on his shoulders.


















































Beautiful place.

















Because I thought it was more important to provide us with a roof over our heads.
It's getting late, and this is the last place in town.











Wear an old macintosh and a scarf on your head and look like a girl on the cover of a magazine.









Mark, darling, stop protecting her. Why don't you admit it?







Hi, I'm glad I caught you at home.




















It was my first experience in sculpture.










- Then you should come see her.





I think Mark would be happy to help, wouldn't he, Mark?






That's the first cowardice I've ever seen on your part.




A charming man, a brilliant conversationalist, a beautiful company... and some chance that his wife is home.










Jocelyn, darling, come down for a minute.


















Little cheater.













































There's something I need to say.

I needed to get rid of her. I couldn't take it anymore.




I didn't tell anyone I was coming, first of all, to me.








































We realized you did it, but we had to check it out.














Good night.

I guess I need to explain what this is.





















I'm almost ready to put the roof on.















































We're gonna run somewhere and build a new house there.



That's where I was gonna put the big buffet.
Women like big cupboards.































We need somewhere to hide.












- We need to search the north sleeve of the river.



















Now she needs that $60 more than ever.











So, kids, now we need to figure out the division.









Ma'am, the inscription was already here when I came in, and I came in first.

























That's very nice of you, Sheriff, but I'm fine.









Little Albert Greenstead told me about some writing on the board.







Ready?


























I need to make room for tomorrow's ceremony.
















You need to catch me first, but you can't.












We need to be ready to leave.














The last line is copied from the old insurance policy.






The worst thing that ever happened.
- You're the new janitor, aren't you?

Anytime you need to do something, just click on old George, and he'll take care of everything.
















- Aren't you the new janitor?














Thank you very much.











































What do you want from me, Ellen?




















































I need to get out.














Only if our friend doesn't strangle someone soon, he'll be on the front page, you mean Crawl?















































There's nothing strange about looking at a beautiful woman.

- I'd love to.






I'm sorry, miss, but they're not ready yet.














I'll leave the door open until I spin a new light bulb.








































Poor little cobbler seemed so weird to me.


I bet he's as calm and pleasant as anyone else.


Well, isn't it friendly to talk to an old boyfriend like that?



























































Ellen, honey, are you okay?

















He needs them.

Of course, Mrs. Grant, I'd love to.


























Mr. Gibbons from the hardware store... sent the yen to set up a new castle.







Hi, honey.
Oh, Steve, I'm so glad to hear your voice.







- No, honey, you're not a neurotic.



- It's okay, honey.







- Yeah, honey, keep you company.



Listen, honey, will you be careful?









- It needs to be put here.




Honey, who did you just let into the apartment?






Honey, they think he killed those women!




















Most of the time.





























Fine, won 1,000.






That 5,000 he needs as much as another oil well.




I think I need to meet Mr. Latimer.









I don't have a family to worry about, so as long as I can, I'm trying to see as much as I can.




Um, thank you very much, but could you put that aside for another time?





Yeah, that'd be great, thanks.


I need to go to Herstud.





























I'd be happy to let you spend the night in that room...


But I'd also be happy to bet you won't make it.








































Honestly, I'm scared. I don't need it.














You need to be more precise than this time, old man, or it has to be a very big ghost.







So, at least you'll be ready to visit people.
So, are you ready?















I guess this is where you'll find everything you need.













- You don't have anyone else, do you?








- Good night.
- Good night.
Good night.






































I'm ready to fire if you don't stop.









I guess that's better than if the old house was demolished.




























Latimer, how sweet.










It was a great relief the next morning we could call him, and he explained that you were in shock... but when you got out of him, everything would be okay.






















































It's just that a girl needs help putting chains on wheels.





The bullets we used were filled with new improved gunpowder.

And the actors returned to Hollywood on a flight from the oldest airline.

In the meantime, good night.













I'm just wondering how you can be real and so beautiful.
- Only for you, darling.


No one thinks I'm so beautiful, only you.










Honey, you're never gonna lose me.























I know, but I need a pussy.


























































But you're gonna have to learn to live with it, darling.









But you're not special, darling.

























I accept your condolences, but what do you want from me?












Of course it's not the same thing, but it doesn't matter.


































But why are my memories so important to you?



















You're not ready.





















Well, are you ready to continue?











Yeah, and you need to take a direct look at this so it can't block your memory anymore.
If that's what this is about, I don't need you.
















Now, I think we're ready to... try to remember the day of the accident.


















I wonder how you can be real and so beautiful at the same time.
- Only for you, darling.


No one but you thinks I'm so beautiful.



Honey, it's not that long.







"Dear, I love you so much, but... sometimes when I close my eyes, I can't remember your face.




Honey, you're never gonna lose me.































I know, but I need a pussy.
































And by the way, there's something you need to remember, too, 'cause in 60 seconds, I'll be gone.


One last reminder.


Good night.













When I went to the terrace of my hotel, I wondered which of my regular clients I'd meet first.





My dear Cecilia, you look adorable.





It's a pleasure to welcome you on board.








He claims to have come to Florida for the sun, but in fact, he's collecting material for a new book.


I assure you, you're all safe this season because I've already chosen a story for a new book.



















Is she your new secretary?







Obviously, the last thing about me.







How was the game, honey?


I think you need to take a shower and change.


Are you ready?








- I'm gonna grab your vitamins, darling.












She's very lucky to marry a money bag and she needs to hold on to it.









My dear, today the entire female population of Palm Beach is on full alert.




I can't convince Cecilia that Howard and I are very happy together.


- Howard gathers beautiful women.

I admit, in the early years of marriage, I staged a scene.




Colonel, you need to dance, it'll be good for your arthritis.

Prince Burhan, it's so good to see you.




Burnside, good to see you.

The world is getting smaller every day, Your Highness.










- Nice to meet you.

















































What's the last explanation?








Irene, of course, sweetheart, but he can't attract a mosquito.













We have a great understanding, and we trust each other completely.













Howard feels like you're tired of your normal social circle and you're looking for a quiet, demandless company.










You've attracted me since the first moment I saw you.








I'll make you the happiest woman on earth.



















Well, if I were you, I'd just enjoy the Prince's company and let the devil grab the last one.

























He doesn't need you.














Look, I'm sorry for the intrusion, my dear prince... but Mr. Cole is looking for you everywhere.













You're just a new trophy for him, and if he got you, you wouldn't be able to keep his attention for long.







































And Mrs. Irene Cole and her bottle empire were his last chance.















We need to tell her she had nothing to do with the Prince's death.

























It's so good to see you.


Honey, can you get me a palantine?
Honey, do you think it'll be warm enough?


- Okay, darling.


Very beautiful.













Goodbye, darling.

I'd be glad if you could read it.



Here you go, darling.
Thanks, honey.


But you said you wanted to tell me something very important.


Probably not that big a deal.

And so they became a happy couple and all because they believed that Prince Burhan had committed suicide out of love for her.
He left them a beautiful inheritance. Who am I to take it away from them?














Join us in a week and I'll tell you a new story.












If that's what you need.
If you need satisfaction, security of mind, listen to this advice from our Philosophal friend.
Here, this gothic bell is very old, the 16th century.



























- Well, I need a drink to celebrate the meeting.
















But regardless of whether it's for sale or not... you owe "Dizar and son" $12,000 to pay.















My beautiful camel I know how you feel
















































You're as picky as an old maid.






I need to get the money, $11,000.

And where are you gonna get that much money?




It won't give you anything because you need my signature, and I won't sign it.






Who served you last year?








He wrote that he discovered some beautiful Hettian things.



It's only a big favor if you pay for it when you get it.



That sweet lady who broke your camel.



















No, Mr. Appleby, I'm sorry, but I can't accept such an expensive gift.







I'm sure you have more important things to do, Mr. Appleby.
Neither so important nor so interesting.

I'll be glad to hear from you.























Lawrence, you have so much. You have a store, your beautiful artwork.





I have no interests other than you, darling.

It's gonna be okay while I'm first on the list.










In a case like this, we need to make sure that the main target isn't Miss Sturges' condition.


However, Miss Sturges is ready to get that thought out of her head.
If you are willing to accept the remaining terms of the marriage contract























Now for the last condition... something very close and expensive for Martha.








You look tired, darling. I'll clean it up later.






Let them pick up some old stuff.


Is that so bad?














- Yes, darling?









I need $7,000 tomorrow.









No, darling, I'm afraid not.

Come on, Dickie. I'll pour you a big plate of milk.


Martha, darling!

Wait a minute, darling.






It's also that Mr. Gainesborough found out about Mrs. Appleby's first Mrs. Appleby was quite difficult to ignore.





Yeah, that was my first thought.













And Mr. Gainesborough will keep calling here every day at the same time to make sure I'm okay and I'm happy.















Now, before I say good night... my sponsor... wanted to give you an important message.
I can't tell anyone who cares.



Good night.















































































































Yeah, my darling, shut up, Ma-tel-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh








































You weren't ready for that.




















That's when you'd be calm.






Calm down, sir.
Monsieur wants to prove to me that he's calm.

Aren't I calm?




I'm not, I've decided to stay calm and stay.













Besides, if I could at least find out that you're cheating on me with a fresh girl, that you're helping her take her first steps and that you're crazy about her.




















So that Monsieur can calm me down, call me, "I've got things to do, I'm there, and I'm there, so don't worry, honey.

















Beautiful.



















I'm taking up a job at the hotel where your old girl lives, and I see you coming out of there.









































































































You didn't want anything from me, and if I did the least, it was so natural.



















Nice work.
Beautiful.


You're gonna have to rule on the first degree murder case.










You have a great responsibility.










































Yeah, we got everything we need.


































What's new?





















One, two, three, and so on, if you don't mind.




One, two...










































I'll just remind you that we're dealing with a first-degree murder. And if he's guilty, we put him in the electric chair.








Everybody ready?





































I voted first, didn't I?














- I'm ready to sit for an hour.








Not a happy childhood.













































You first.
















One.

That night at ten minutes first, he heard a noise.





























I looked out the window and I saw this little bastard stabbing a knife into my father's chest across the street.





















You don't need a fight either.











It's very important. 'Cause if there's no motive, there's no case.






































Fathers don't need that right now.
















- We're missing an important moment.
















































It doesn't matter.
Doesn't matter?






















Maybe the lawyer was bad.


































One: The boy left the house at eight o'clock after his father slapped him.














































































I don't understand why this knife is so important.

What else do you need?



The knife was important to the D.A.














- If you agree, I'm ready.

























































































I'm glad you didn't let your emotions take over...







































I don't know you, but I bet you're wrong.







Ready?
























She saw the last two.








It doesn't matter.


































One.




A woman across the street swears she looked out the window and saw a murder through the windows, through the last two cars.



The woman saw the last two cars. So the body fell on the floor as soon as the train passed.





























An old man in a ripped jacket.



He's a quiet, scared little man who had nothing.





And he needs to be known to be heard.


















"I'll kill you, darling." "Baby, I'm gonna kill you." "Rocky, kill him."




















































It happened at ten minutes one.

































First.




















- Yeah, when you need it.
- Or when he needs it.






































- Oh, great.






And lied to make it seem more important?














- Chairman, I need a plan at home.

You're the only one who needs him.









































































































































































Number. First?





























I don't think it matters if he's dirty or not.





































































I'm ready to give up the verdict.























An important element of the prosecution was the fact that the boy did not remember the names of the films and the names of the actors, even though he claimed to have been in the movies.



























































































































































































And they don't need any reason to kill either.

























































First. The testimony of a woman who actually saw the moment of the murder.
And that's the most important statement.







Finally, at ten minutes one, she turned to the window, and when she looked at it, she saw a murder through the windows of the train.






















Okay, I suggest a new trial.














Let's say we've been discussing a new jury since seven.







- It's important.


























































































She had to identify a man in 60 feet without glasses.





































































We're ready.














A bunch of ropes to catch a little fish.
They catch a big cow with one little rope in Texas.




It's such a big country out by the sea, near America.

































There should have been more than two people there.












































- Oh, that's so bad.






Yeah, Verico, do you need me?









Now. The big plane fell from the sky.

Two people, they need your help now.
Easy, easy, my friend.













Probably the inedible clam that you're willing to buy me for nothing, I'm sure.



A man of great science and great wealth.
A lot of wealth? Professor...









Now tell me, why is it so important and urgent?







As long as you need it, Pepe, hold it, you deserve your 200 lire.
























- He's very bad.






























I need to know.

















What is it, my dear?




Pepe, the little fisherman brought it.












Let's go inside, darling.










Now I'm gonna go to the village and I want to see a little fisherman there and find out exactly where he found our buddy at sea.



























- The first person in history...




























I was told that the case involved something very important... But from the planet? Venus?
Man's first interplanetary journey.















And we owe it to her to come back, because there were minerals on Venus that would be of great benefit to our civilization.


We need divers to investigate the crash site and find a sample.












It's so important for us to find this one to the container and its contents that I'm willing to award half a million lire to the one who found it.








If I tell you about this ship thing, promise me you won't take my hat from the big country of Texas.






























Besides, I need to see a young man with a horse. And half a million lire.









































He needs to be taken alive.





That poor dog must have hit him first.




















I'm very sorry to interfere with your secret thoughts, but I need to change your bandage.

















We'll search the mountains with the first rays of the sun.









































If the commissioner doesn't catch him first.

It should work on the first time.















Doc, we're ready.





Please come in, the general is ready to see you.






































Less, he'll wake up.








So far, we have only one conclusion ready:







Grandpa, do you still need me?



Every time you get prettier and prettier.


Colonel, when you have your spare time, I'd like to talk about my last nightmare.

Well... it's about that cafe, the little table and bottles of wine.
















Yes, it's made of new synthetic materials.



Therefore, firearms do not cause him much harm.



















And General, we need a quick weapon.


Keep an eye on the beast, but report as soon as possible.




















































































What did your son tell you about this meeting? This is important.





























Beautiful...















I'll say the roast isn't ready yet.





It's in the paper for the first time!









































Is that bad?
- Not bad, but not much better.
Our Klaus will do better.








Beautiful...

































Oh, it's beautiful.












He's sick, darling, I had to visit him.

But I'm in great shape.















Thanks to the bank, you have the opportunity to go to a good college, to live in a beautiful house, you have to understand that all this art, nonsense.























Feel better, darling?

































I'm gonna read my new story tonight.






























Little bitches...

























































Good night.
- Good night, Werner.





























You need to hear her first.



























Good night.






















































You should've done it sooner.






It seems like you're not happy with your marriage.

But there's a little "but ", am I right?


















































































Beautiful!
















































You're the first person to tell me that.
Let me say, I'm very happy!

















Thank you so much for kindly letting us look for Dr. Winclair.




Today, however, in a new conquered Greece, it's called a "no rules fight."

Heinz and Gunter, first round.



























I'm not interested in his name if he makes me happy.








































He may not have a big gun, his name doesn't interest me if he just makes me happy.








The world, my dear Werner, is full of shadows!





















The boy is in the first stage of danger.
See, Werner, it's not that bad.












































What's the big idea?

















I've got some work to do.















And he calls me a little doll.





























Hey, little wiener woman!






























- With great pleasure, sir.
































It's beautiful.
















































But he'll be ready for the trip when we get to the office.




Have a nice trip, darling.





























































Good night!
























You have beautiful legs.














Do I have such big eyes?













































- He's not ready yet.



I'm glad you're happy.
Your mother should be happy, too.































Ready, I'll close the gate.






































You see, Inspector, I'm very happy to talk to you.


















Are you ready to announce this under oath?

I'm ready to swear up anywhere.











If you really want to know, my dear, I've never been there.
Look, it's not as bad as we thought.


















Well, I need some money.




Last deposit is three hundred.




- I didn't do anything wrong.





















Oh, darling, darling, he can make a lot of noise.



















































































When was the first time that... you made love to Klaus Taichmann?




















































So it was a big success for Mrs. Taichmann.







- All you have to do is say no.































It doesn't matter whether it's yours or mine.
I'm the director of a big bank.





















































































Madame, I'm glad you're not afraid, but to underestimate the situation is dangerous.















I just wanted my boy to be happy.
How can he be happy if he's spinning around in these circles?





I was the first...




























































I'll handcuff you if you behave badly.










































"The sun in the last days of Sinagawa"



In Samurai time, there was the first stop of 53.


Within one year, this business will cease to exist, thanks to a new law against prostitution.






But since it was the first stop on the main route, there were 100 brothels and 1,000 Shogun competing with each other.







Look, this is our first time, and I'm crying!











I know you don't have to worry, but you wouldn't want to leave with a headache.


We don't like little meals on big plates.































We punished them for bad behavior.
















































































That's why I took over with a big forehead.









































Kijima, the old devil, made me nervous.


















You sound like Old Kidsma.






























































































I don't need your services.




















- Thank you very much.



















































To sleep with your man...

























































If brothels are bad, you have to notify them.



































You started blooming, ready to work.


















Oh, it's beautiful!






- It's beautiful...




That's very nice of you, but think about yourself.

















To sleep with your man calmly."













- I wrote to him first.






































Kinzo, darling, you're here.
I'm so glad.




Order something, and don't be niggardly, darling.






























Oh, I'm so happy, Kinzo, darling!



When you rot, clothes don't matter.





















































Kinzo, darling, I'm gonna hold off.




















































































What do you want?



First of all, I need to figure out how much damage you've done to us.




That's not good.












Looks like I'd better be in my little room.



Oh, what a nice room!









Yeah, it's the Old Devil.
























































New product from Switzerland.











Room 12, your food is ready!


























I'm too old for this.











That's very nice of her.


And with me, old devil, it's best not to joke.




You don't have to worry.








































I need my jacket.








































Thank you very much.


















































There's a lot of demand for them.









Dinner's ready!





















































I'm ready to go.


I have so much to tell you.


I need to lie down.


























Kinzo, this is too old an old trick for Sinagawa.
- Brother, that was a bad idea!




































Bummer, darling, you were great.




That's so sweet of you.








My dear Stupid, sometimes I need your help.














Toku, darling!





































I probably won't be home until New Year's Eve.










































If you're gonna walk around and trust everyone, you're gonna end up worse.



































We need to know how to get there.
Ready or not, let's go tomorrow.












We don't need you!





















You can run with him, but you need support.
His uncle in Senju lives in a big house without children, and loves a young master.











We're in big trouble.





























What do you care about this coal?

















Amazing, my dear Bug!





I've never had such a good bath, my dear Bug.





























- You were the first one to doubt me.






Let me work with Old Devil Kidzima.















It's all set, sir.
































- How'd it go with the Old Devil?





































































































Young Master, you have a new life.











Bad cough.












Mr. Bummer, I need you here!



Bummer, darling!







Bummer, darling, you can see better from here. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,


















Looks aren't important these days.



Bummer, darling, you're gonna have to pick one of us.






I've been feeling better lately.









Bummer, darling, I promise myself in this letter.











































How bad is it?





















I'll take you, but I need to get ready.




























It's big, and it's small.





You've become this little piece of stone...













If new prisoners see us digging graves, they could run away.




































You don't have to laugh at the grave.

















I am the commander of this camp, i.e. Camp 16 next to the great railroad that will soon connect Bangkok to Rangoon.

















"Be happy in your work."
Be happy in your job.












I have a copy of this convention, and I'm happy to let you look through it.











































Well, I have to go.








I can come up with a lot of different epithets for Saito, but "smart" is something new.













There's no need for barbed wire.





The chances of survival in this camp are even worse.












































































































































You have to respect those who try.




































- Fine, sir, fine.














There's something I need to tell you.

This man is the worst commander I've ever seen.






































Thank you very much.


































It is with great shame and regret that I acknowledge to you the error of a member of the Japanese staff.

He's a bad engineer.







We'll be happy in our work.























I was a bad artist.






























You know what would happen to me if the bridge wasn't ready in time?



























I'd be a bad commander if I let that happen.



















































I tried to tell you the Japanese just couldn't pick the worst place.




























I realize how hard it's gonna be here where it's impossible to find the right thing.





They need to be busy.









Tell me what you need, and we'll get it.

















They'll fall under the first train.



I suppose we all agree that, in order to avoid a disaster, we will build a new bridge at 400 yards downstream, as Reeves suggested.



















There's another important decision that can't be postponed.

I have to ask you to give us your men to boost the workforce so that the last section of the road can be completed as soon as possible.

We need to set a daily standard for your people.
















- Good night.
- Good night.


- Good night, Clipton.
- Good night, sir.








- Oh, thank you very much.



All I need is love.

All you need is love.













He needs you.











That's very nice of you.






































You couldn't make more mistakes.















































































































































You need an American commander, Commander Schers, who doesn't exist.







I'm getting worse.














I suppose that's why they were happy to give you to us.

























Our guys are doing a great job.

















Are they much happier or not?








But do you have to work so well?




It's very important to show them that they can't break our body and spirit.






- You're a great doctor, but you still have a lot to learn about the army.











































You don't have to think.












It's an old army problem.































New "S" pill.



Much better than the old ones.






















Because of the lack of time, they don't think training jumps are the right thing to do.


























He'll lead you to the river the way I've never walked.




You're cute.
Honey.
Be happy in your job!






















New construction downstream from first place.
















































































I was ready.







That's all that matters right now.




We all need it.

























How to die a gentleman, how to die by the rules when the only thing that matters is how to live like a human being!


Good old Yay.

























And the gray boulder underneath them on that little beach?















They clearly have watchmen on the bridge, so we're gonna have to bring the explosives down the river, and then we're gonna have to build a raft.













Beautiful.
Yeah, it's fine.


Yeah, it's a beautiful structure.


















Honey.


It's a shame you won't see the bridge being used for the first time in practice.
But you will be pleased to learn that the completion of this section of the railway will allow us to transport the sick and the infirm to the new camp by train.




But someday, in a week, a month, a year on the day that, God forbid, we will all return to our homes you will be proud of what you have achieved here in the face of great troubles.







You're ready for work.





Unless you want a long and happy life.















As you once said, sir, I still have a lot to learn about the army.




I think we need to go through everything before we miss the train.





We gotta do this, kid!
We need to do this right now!



































There must be happy people in San Francisco.
They don't need help.
"Dear Katie Ferguson!

I need help, and I don't need anyone else.


















Get in charge of these L.A.s, you need a woman's view of the baby Dan :










Dietrich, new front page.






























































"Dear Mary Dana.

























But before I say anything, there's something we need to agree on.



















I gave the address of the old shop a zip.
By the time he gets back, Dana will be detained, charged, tied up and ready to go to Los Angeles.


I'll come in first.


I need Captain Alidos.


It's important.


Yes, that's very nice, Miss Ferguson, but you don't seem to understand.



























Tell me, what could be the most desirable happy marriage, children and family home?





Life is more than that to me.





The front page.








I think putting three bullets in your husband is more than just "do something stupid."





























You're happy, aren't you?



























I'm glad.




















Do you love me, sweetheart? Yes!




I wish you all the best, darling.












Mr. Doyle has asked for new curtains for you.

Very nice.






























Make you happy.





I don't need much... yet.
Thank you very much.







Big boss.


Sorry, honey.







Everything you and Bill need.
I'm sure you'll be happy.






Charlie's a wonderful man.










You know, we have a new 36-inch.


























Hey, honey.























It's okay, honey.










Beautiful.







Last delivery, boys.
Yeah, boys, last one. Pick it up.








Coffee's ready, guys.












Beautiful man.






The one where the inspector praises Charlie for his excellent work in the Keiman case.












You know, Charlie wants me to wear a new dress at the reception.





Tell me exactly what to do and how to do it.





























Maybe it's not that bad.
Worse.
It's much worse.

















Honey, don't, don't.
All I want is for you to be happy.

I'm happy.










That's what matters, and that's all.








You need a tugboat.


I live here if you need a phone.



I'll be happy to drive you.






























I think driving is a big responsibility, right?








No, honey, you said:



Honey, finish your drink and bring Katie in.
















To confess, Katie, I haven't been feeling well lately.




You need at least a week.


































Thank you very much.






I should've called.







He's been so tired lately and...















Alice, this is a great party.




Honey, the Commissioner is threatening to order his party.




I think I need a lawyer.






























And you're not just gonna live a life of peace.












From the very first time, I'm dying to ask about this picture.





























I don't understand, honey.




It's quieter.









Honey, I want to be with you more.



It's not as important as your feelings.








I didn't think Inspector Pope needed me so much.









Honey, I'm selfish, awful selfish.
Tony Pope likes you, he's interested in you. You'll be happy to work with him, and that's all that matters.

Yeah, honey.
























































































































































































He's so busy with the last orders.






But I'm so happy for you.














It's important that...






































Bacon's almost ready?






What's the difference, sweetheart?



























































Good night, Bill.




It's important!



I need this! We need to move on with Bill to make peace with ourselves to...


























Do you have to, darling?






















The picture of the bullet is ready.










Wake up, honey?






Alice needs you.




When are you coming, honey?



























































































I need to call Gary, 2860.











































































And you, dear friend, don't need my help.







































- Great, great, the last time I saw him.

































































Do you want this shitty job or what?





















- I thought I told you to get new cards!
































































Then you're alone, man, and that's the worst.





You may not know, but right now you're the last great waste!














































































- My old one.

























Well, there's a big difference for Charlie!
















- Do you need your lunch?





















If you're even the luckiest man in the marriage, you still miss that freedom a little bit. You know what I mean?




















































































"Good morning," "Good night," and "go to hell."
















- We're in the middle of an important game here, do you mind waiting?

















Besides, a handsome guy like me invites an old awful chicken like you to a dance you can't just say no to him!


That old awful chicken and I won the Katka competition.














- I'm glad you came today, Axl.


I'm really happy.















Dinner will be ready in a minute.
































I think... dinner's ready.





















That kind of thing is important, man, I mean, it's the good thing about life.
Here, if I imagine it's a 20-year-old brandy instead of 98 cents of blueberry wine, who's sick of it, right?


- No, thank you, these cigars are bad enough!








































































I'll talk to you tomorrow, Ellie. Good night!





























































But wait a minute! If you don't care that I'm a bad player, I'd really like to go!
























Look, I hope you've taken the gifts to this house and the land, darling, because today we're gonna smash you into pieces!




I bet...








































If you want to stay with us for coffee, we'd love to.









Right in the pocket between one and three!
That bobble was just when we needed it, wasn't it?



Bad?




































One, I get 50 cents an hour.







































Boy, isn't it clear to you that you need faith?



























































First of all, it's important to me what's going on with you.































I love to see my workers happy!


















On such a beautiful day, you're going to fight!

You don't want to bleed all this beautiful, clean hangar, do you?




- You need me, don't you?







































































































The only thing that matters is what happens from now on.








Do you really need me?






I deserted the army. I'm a bad guy.






































































- You're making it worse, there's nothing you can do!





























































The world was once big, and no man has ever been around it in his entire life.
For centuries, science has made life longer and the world less.




New radars should be calibrated using test flights to determine the accuracy of the equipment and map the contours of the area of detection in order to determine the dead areas where the radar cannot reach.



































- Mommy, honey, I'll wait if you're ready.






































Look, Major Bergen, I was on the last test flight, I noticed the UFO and I reported it.

















The link was raised in the air and dispersed to cover the largest possible area.





























- Is our transport ready yet?
































































But Pete's in bad shape.































- 14th road, behind the road.





























At least for the first time.
The Civil Aviation Command sends the research team first thing in the morning.












Easy, Pierre, easy.






























There's a lot of old people here who believe in this bike, but it's the first time I've seen someone say they saw an old witch.















Well, I saw a big bird.
















































I need one of your cards.



















And each new one goes further from center to center.







Something that destroyed four planes and a miracle didn't notice you for the first time.




Why on such a system to shoot down a few long-range jets?




The first plane would have stopped her.










- Don't be sarcastic.









Anyway, honey, you kiss me and, please, shut up.




















































Mr. McCafi, this is extremely important.






















First line, please.































Easy, Van, easy.























I've seen it on the broiler farm, but this baby, dude, wins the first prize.
































It's just a bird, a big bird.





























Fine, fine.

We've been keeping up-to-date with the research lab.


























































As a last resort, we tried an electronic analyser.






My team is ready and waiting for the call, Ed.




The only problem is, the last time I spoke to the priest, the only place we could get the help we needed was a phone line wasn't set up.


































































I'll explain later. It's awful important.
I need a quick plane and a helicopter.








We're interrupting our broadcast for an important announcement.












The delivery of food and basic necessities will be carried out by the armed forces.






We need to go to Pierre's farm.





Well, everything but a bird, but we need eggs.

- No, Pep, it's a hundred times worse.







You shoot a gun, make a big noise, come a carcany, and we all die.




























- Hey, Uncle, are you scared of a big evil bird?





















- Some new weapon?























So, my-mezonal atom is very small, small enough to go through the electronic protection of the normal atom.










- What do you need for that?






- Well, who's ready to work?

- We need a miracle.
























- Easy, son, easy.






We need to install our equipment on him.




















- Old, B-25 with a shotgun.











How many people do you need to drive this car?

















- We need to connect this thing.

We need to leave in 15 minutes.













- We'll be ready in a minute.



























Honey, it's time to get out of here before it's too late.


































I need the money.





















I'm getting old.




















- Good to see you.












- I need help.






















We need to find him before it's too late.












I need information.





Mr. Bailey has a small gun he hides in his shoe.






































































Sorry, good night.











It doesn't matter if Doc's right or not.

We have to go.












- She's probably from the big city.


There's something we need to discuss.


I need your representatives.




















By the way, have someone write you a new speech.

























The hairdresser needs this, the sheriff needs a gun.


































They say she has whole suitcases of beautiful clothes.





























































You know, I'm not gonna need that yet. Buy yourself a new hat.














































He's not a bad guy, he's just arrogant.



















Good night. - Good night.







I don't want it to light up on the ground floor.




























Good night.


- Good night.
- Good night.


- Good night.






All we have to do is attack the trail.



You need a shooter?


























































Well, I'm ready to be an assistant.







I didn't think I'd be happy to see you.














We need to get through 20 yards.





















I'm ready to love you and leave him.






I needed you.
Then put a rope on my neck and drive with you if you need me.






























I'm sorry, but I have to go.

- Good night.
- Good night.



It's so beautiful here.
I'm glad I came here.

You look like a scared little girl.
I'm not scared, and certainly not a little girl.




























Isn't that beautiful?





They're always ready to take the money.
And my men are ready to dance with your women.


























You're gonna get shot first.






















I thought it might be good for you to know that one sheriff would be a smaller sheriff.



































He says he's ready to make you a U.S. sheriff whenever you want.
White Earp, U.S. Sheriff, all you need.





He's in trouble, he needs me.


























The financial question is also important.












I have a family in Deadwood, even a little Jimmy trying to get married.
What do you mean, small?







- Good night, Uncle White.
- Good night.
- Good night, Uncle Morgan.
- Good night. - Good night, Uncle Jim.
- Good night.
- Good night, Dad.
We're glad you came.


















John Clam, the publisher of the paper, and some people, are willing to help us if we need to.
We think we need to end this.




Too bad you came with him.




























You know, Coton, this is a nice little town. Nice place.


































4............................................. I don't need to.










Aren't you going to say hello to an old friend?










Clanton's all he needs is a war.

























- Take the gun. - That's all I need.
If I don't come back in a few hours, the citizens of the city will be ready to bury me.





















































The law is much more important than any other family pride. - They won't, they're too proud.




























































It's okay, honey.














































I need you, don't let me down.









































































You need to go to the hospital in Denver.






























1-9-0 is Allison Tower, you sit first.






















We'll be ready to take off in 20 minutes.


Rounds go north of base, at high speed.


























1-9-7 don't open fire until he shoots first.






















Beautiful.









































































It was a beautiful friendship, it gradually grew into... total apathy, baby.































Is everything ready?
Be ready to leave in half an hour.

























































Maybe it's a new form of Russian propaganda.



































































Beautiful sex antagonism.


















































I ran into a bad weather in Edmonton, but we're all here.







It doesn't matter.




















































Not bad.





















































It's beautiful.








It doesn't matter.







































We'll bring in the old fighters from Dayton at night.
And we'll use the old methods of interception.





































I'm better off myself, I'm so calmer.




























































Shannon's a bomber. Good night, Mommy.

Good night, baby.


























It's a fine example of working together.



Like the first time I kissed you, you didn't do your part of the job.





































Beautiful shapes.























What's more important to you?








The more I think about it, the worse it gets.



































The planes are more important now.























Beautiful.




That's the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.


I'm happy today.





























Well, it's not that bad.





Why do you think you're so beautiful?











Were they as beautiful as I was?


Not lately.
























Oh, honey.



How can Russia compete with such propaganda? Good night.

















The couch, a beautiful American invention, could be turned into a bed.






But, honey, I'm tired.































Honey, the colonel picked it out for her.





























I think this is the last time we fly together.









It's not gonna be bad when the air conditioner's up.













Big problems.

























Sit first.

















































Is it bad?

Was it worse than you thought?






















































I've been a little busy the last few days.















I dreamt I'd lost my beautiful...

















































































Oh, Jim, I'm so happy for you.


It's as good for me as it is for you.



















Maybe after the last dance.






























I don't think I'd be happy without you.














Have a safe journey.






























































Vasily, it's good to see you again.


You're the first, but I hope it's not the last.







I haven't had much time to rest lately.













































Until you told us anything new.













































Or worse.



They've improved the worst part.



























On the other hand, it could be the last drop.



















Olga. You haven't called me lately.

Anna, a beautiful child, I thought you were a refugee. And Olga, the wiener-- this one made me a fucking cock.







































































Big?









































You're not that bad.





























You have a very big...
Big for what?























I'm ready.



























If you're not ready to do this, you can say no.





Yeah, I'm ready, but-- but what?













How about a beautiful, big, juicy steak?









My dear Olga, how have you changed?

Yeah, you've become prettier than you've ever been.





Moscow is very pleased, you'll see.
There's an important task for you.











Your plane is ready, Captain.
















I think it's a big mistake.



Then why is the exchange a big mistake?









Our new methodology... only at very small doses, of course.



I'll arrange for the last dose to be added to his food.










I had a little trouble with the first...











































































See the big cloud ahead?


















What do you want?


























She's beautiful, there's no bet.
















- It's all set, Les.


These are my little lines, Les.


































Let me know if you find anything else about a new orbit.






















I'm so sorry, darling.

























It doesn't matter now, sir.
The important thing is that M47 will face the Earth within 16 hours.






Missiles ready.







































The odds that an asteroid will hit a big town of minserna.

The asteroid is heading towards New York, but there is hope that it will not cause much damage to the city.













































Or will he make his own move first?
























































































I've been in myself for the first time since...























































A large energy reserve, or according to the patient, the battery landed on our planet, managed and controlled by Incub.







- What do you want?

















As you may have heard, the phone line from Los Santos was very bad.
Dr. Gaskell mentioned the giant Kronos, who was identified in Greek mythology as a great evil monster.













































Why did he choose the power plant first?

















That's what I need.































Now they've lowered the battery here to find new energy sources.






If he succeeds, there will be more of them, and there will be energy all over the Earth, up to the last particle of energy.



It's extremely important!












































Susie can handle the big data entry, so then her processing overloads the chains, causes the suspension, and causes her regular excitement.































































Target shooting's off, get in the circle to get new instructions.












The chain reaction will continue until the last stored electro-mass is neutralized.




If they do, we'll be ready to get rid of them.

There is a great need for a dream when dark times come and hope disappears.




And if you left work and had nothing to do with Palma Valencia or "Elizabeth's cute legs" could bring magic into your cold, empty room.













































































You must be more reasonable, dear Lizzie...
Stay away from me, you old bastard!











Well, now you can go to the directorate and report me. You... old night pot!







Well, I have a very important meeting right now. - Well...






















- I feel sick.









- That's beautiful, isn't it?




























We're just having a bad day.
- Good night, Freddy!
- Good night!






"Dear father, dear mother...






- Yes, my dear Lizzie. But you're a girl, and you also work. He's got nothing to do.

Oh, my dear!














The latest news!

The latest news!


















It's an important meeting. Paul! I haven't seen you in so long.


Come to our house! To our new apartment!













Beautiful thing, isn't it?

- You have a nice place here.




And maintaining newborns is an expensive pleasure. And then you have to pay for the furniture!






















That's all I want.
























- Even in the biggest crisis. - I don't know.


- But, my dear Fromeyer...

And you should have told yourself that, given times of crisis, you have to impose restrictions on yourself.





















And now there's a baby... and now it's supposed to be Lizzie's first love.

Love has only just begun to grow from a dream to a reality, transformed with every new day. Laughter turned into crying, laughing... first love!

It made her happy.












Do you see, darling Fromeyer? We're making concessions.



You're ready to walk on corpses!












When it's just the two of us, it's not that bad!





Ah, sweet Fraulein Lizzie...







But I don't have to, do I?






You'll be as good as the others.



























Oh, my dear Herr Shurin!



- Thunderheads like you, we don't need it! Okay? - Freddy!


























You're the one who needs a lesson and a solid one!




They're not gonna clean up, but they're gonna make a bigger mess.




Last warning.


We need to think seriously about how to move on.










































Yes, yes, my dear!










We need a new order!
Well, my dear friend, you should think about whether it's right for you.

















But I just wanted to see if there was anything a homeless tramp could do for an important gentleman.














In the new Reich, every member of the German nation will be guaranteed dignity.













After Freddie joined the SA, life for Lizzie and her little family improved a little.







I had to buy something.






I don't like him lately.













- Isn't he nice, Mom?





















































It can't be that bad!

































We need to investigate first.






Isn't that bad enough?





















- Not today, my dear!













Thank you very much!

Some of our old patrons who have recently drastically cut funding have now re-enacted the party coffer.




- New furniture again, Mrs. Fromeyer.









Merry Christmas!
So, now they had a new apartment.

Yeah, and the new dress suits you, Lizzie.
You look prettier than in your old apartment.
Your life has become more comfortable. It's a lot quieter than that.


But is it really calm?
How beautiful you are, my girl!



How's the new mirror?






Merry Christmas to you!
- Beautiful lady!





Big surprise, beautiful lady!











To Christmas! To the new apartment! And for your brother who found his own way to our leader, Adolf Hitler!

































































In a bad mood at our victory party? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
Beautiful victory!

















But you can't understand it, beautiful lady! You don't have to.




Well, my dear friend! You really don't know anything about politics!





Chicken! Teaching us old storm troopers how to fight for Germany's future!






















Yeah, yeah, yeah! It's okay, our little Humpy Pumpy!






All he's been doing lately is grunting.






















Yeah, there's gonna be a change. Big change!









"This is the last election we hold in the government.























I'm not that bad after all.



















































More important things are happening now, Lisbeth!









It doesn't matter at all.
Much more important things are happening now, Lisbeth!

































































Same as any other big city-- London, New York, Tokyo, except for two small things:









































You need to rest.

I have to be ready to go to the patient day and night.















I'm glad.




























So sad and so beautiful.








What woman can ask for more than to die with her lover?














































Hurry up, monsieur, do you have good news or bad news?




























I had to take my wife with me to London.
















And you'll be happy to know they're not alone. Not alone?






It's beautiful, isn't it? Yeah, yeah.







































I should have taken more, because without Mr. Flannagan, my business will be much worse.













Of course, darling.

Of course, darling.












He's the most handsome man in your archive, that's for sure.














I need Mr. Flannagan, Mr. Frank Flannagan.

















I need the Police Commissioner.






































Bad dog!


Bad dog!


I'm sorry to interrupt, but it's very important because you're wanted to be killed. Kill?














































I'm very glad I've been looking for him for a week.




Lulu! You're going to see a shrink in the morning. Bad dog!






In fact, I think she's one of the most beautiful women in the world.










I'm glad it went well.

































































I was just about to ask you, aren't you too old for that?


































Tomorrow is my last day in Paris, I'm going to America.
Have a good trip!
You don't want me to spend my last night in Paris alone, do you?














































Good morning, my dear.




I haven't been myself lately.




Working on a new case?




















Dear Mr. Flannagan.
After a thorough examination of your past experiences, I decided that our new meeting was impossible. Even in the daytime.
Dear Mr. Flannagan.


Dear Mr. Flannagan.
I made a very big mistake last night.


















It's good to see you again.












I said please, I need your help.







It's a big problem.


Last year in Japan, I was ruined by a whole new suitcase.

























Like, say, the 10 highest mountains, the population of Portugal, the average annual rainfall in New Zealand.











I could put it in a cardboard box, in a big cardboard box.
I'm glad you didn't.





In a way, I'm glad you're leaving today.


















Oh, I'm glad you mentioned her.



Most girls are probably attached to their first love.

Like the first pair of high heel shoes.
Tell me, do you remember the first man in your life?











































Thank you, Monsieur Flannagan. Have a good trip! Thank you, Monsieur Flannagan.
Have a good trip!

Have a good trip!












I don't want anything from you.










Ariane, is lunch ready?










Wait for the last act when they play Libestoll.


































The opera has much greater musical value.






























This is one of my clients, a very important businessman. Export-import. I gave it to my secretary.





I think that's very nice.






- Good night, darling.











We need to be careful with the trajectories.
It's a Siberian mountain, very expensive.












But the bottle is very small, and the bananas are very large.

















Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Very strong, blonde, always wearing edelweiss behind his ear. And he had very nice knees.



























































Dad, don't you think that's enough for the first lesson?










































Oh, it's an old climbing party.













- New?








































If it makes you feel any better, Mr. Flannagan, you're the first American in my life.












Ariane, I need to talk to you.



































You have very beautiful legs.
Too big.




I need to find a shoe.





















Dear Mr. Flannagan.

Number one is a red haired algebra teacher.
Number two is a very nice boy.








Sorry, it's just old friends came from Stockholm.



































Dear Mr. Flannagan.

Number one is a red haired algebra teacher.
Number two is a very nice boy.














Number one is a red haired algebra teacher.
Number two is a very nice boy.





Bad dog!

















It's so good to see you again!










- Never. If a man soaks in the morning, it means either a very good night or a very bad night.












A girl can look clean, like the first snow, and then once, and you find a flat ski.





Come on, Monsieur, you need help.






Or the young lady is innocent, and then everything's fine. Or she's not sinless, and in that case, I'll sell you my gun at a similar price.


Ariane, do you know that in the last three weeks you've been washing your head for the 17th time?




Lately, I've noticed you're sleeping on your stomach. My calculations show...
















It's an honor.





Look, Mr. Chavez, I have a problem that needs to be solved.

























































































No, it's an old sentimental Vienna song called "Charming."





































Looks like I was a bad father.














































I was ready to pack my bags and leave.




























She's so helpless, such a little fish.




























But I don't have to pretend with you, you're a smart girl.



















I'm gonna be a little weird and lonely without you. At least the first few days.




























So you see, Mr. Flannagan, I'm gonna be fine.
Everything's gonna be fine!
















Now, a little surprise.






























Oh, fine, fine...














































































































I hid all the sweets in the old stroller under the stairs. No one's gonna find them there.





















Good to see you.



























I think our colleagues in Hamburg can handle it just as well.
Listen, Inspector. I think you missed an important point.



























Beautiful.




























Miss, big German steak.
Big as Great Germany.






































































- Oh, that's sweet, Bruno.

























He must have been scared by the latest news.









Our Führer needs heroes. And you know it.














Besides, this is the first time I've ever done this.












Sweetheart, would you rinse the glasses?

























































































And I'm really glad I can talk to someone.















It's not because they needed money. They're really good people.






I'm so glad I'm talking to someone!











I'm not that old.


Do I look that old?
Yeah, the last few years have been...
And I was a beautiful woman...


























I'll be glad to have the guests.



















































What happened to your thumb?



























































If I'm not mistaken, one important witness is hiding.





It's an old search notice.




















- Don't.












I'm sorry, but it's very important to me.

It's beautiful.

It's like old times!


Yeah, but candles... that's beautiful. Especially on such a special occasion.










How nice of you to come by.






























It doesn't matter what you think.




























































But between the old soldiers...






















Your records are impressive, dear friend.

























































We need to develop to reach the highest level.





Honey, you can't see I have guests.



You know, sometimes you have to relax.





I need the right context to run this law - a bill if you want - to apply to certain types.
Do you need help?





































You're very nervous, my little cousin.


























What's new about my purse?













































We need a strong man.


You have to eat.
You have to smoke and drink schnapps.






































































We're ready to present 55 murders to him.







































































Just wait till I finish you, you little ulcer.





























Beautiful.










































He seems willing to make a big mistake.






































We need to get a reprieve from the Hamburg court.
I'm not who you want me to be.













You need to present incontrovertible documents.












It's the first time I've heard of it.









I wonder if Rossdorf heard your last words.










Thank you, dear Kersten, for this visit.

Good night.





































































For the first time, I'll agree with you.






















































First car!

I expected the worst.



Could have been worse.
















Come on, have a drink with your old comrades.

Whatever it takes to die heroically.































- That's not necessary. Just trust me.




















































You said, "Show me the worst you can do." And that's exactly what I did.





















- Good night, Mrs. Karswell.
- Good night.




I need to sleep, and this light hits me in the eye.




















I'm very glad I had the opportunity to meet you.











































Sorry to bother you, Mr. Holden, but we don't have much time, and we still have so much to do.












I haven't been able to sleep lately.






I wrote to Professor Harrington that if he wanted to find a key to Karswell's bloated supernatural abilities, all he had to do was draw a psychological profile of his followers.

































Dr. Holden, it's very good to see you.



































Excuse me, sir, but the last book you ordered,










I'll try to find what I need here.
























If I don't find what I need here, I'll use your offer.
Beautiful.





But a scientist must be open to all new things.




































It's very important.





















































That's nice, 'cause I'm collecting them."





Runic symbols are the oldest form of alphabet.


















You don't have to treat me like a patient who needs to be calmed down, please.





Good night, Mr. Holden.







Good night.



































It's really good to see you.

























My dear, I hope you don't mind the children's holidays.





- Do you want ice cream, my dear?































































































She wanted to see the book you were discussing with Dr. Holden. Yes, my dear?
But we can't read the words either. Yes, my dear?













Goodbye, my dear.
































That's the first thing you've said in half an hour.






And how does a man who's been told he's gonna die in three days, think that his calm sleep will convince me of the existence of a supernatural?





But she's cute.

I'm gonna be very busy-- I'm gonna have to go through my uncle's paperwork.









- Good night.
- Good night.








We need his family to sign the release document.





- You're a big skeptic.













This whole demonic monster story, which completely deprived Hobart's mind, is a wonderful example of self-inclusion and mass hysteria.

































I'd love to.













Do you remember "A poem about an old sailor"?
Bad.













You wouldn't deny a dying man his last wish. Really?











If it makes you feel any better, you're gonna have to give the victim the parchment so she doesn't know anything.










My imagination is no worse than the rest of us.































If that's true, I need to speak to Mrs. Hobart.































Well, thank you very much, Mrs. Hobart.























I'm so glad you two came together.










That's very nice.


















Maggie, honey?
Our lives are full of little troubles, aren't they?





Well, Maggie, I don't see any point in wasting these nice people's time.



























But they're very nice.

Oh, it's an honor.




































- Maggie, I'm sick.







































- No, I'll be much more comfortable on my own.





My dear, you are pale as death.
















































































































It's the same thing when he used old Mrs Carswell to give us a story about him not being home.







Good night, Dr. Holden.





































Recently, many publications have been dedicated to people who have allegedly remembered their past lives under hypnosis.


The subject of hypnotism leads us to introduce Professor Harrington's latest work of studying the followers of magical cults and practices that worship the devil.


























A calm, resuscitating dream.








































































Can you get me a car? I have to go to Lafford Hall.


There's something I need to get back to Mr. Carswell.























































I guess I still have time for the last cigarette.


























I have to go.


























Thank you very much.





























































































Such a young and beautiful girl...
















This is the first time since I was transferred here that I spent time with someone and... I liked it.











I'm glad.















- Good night, everyone!












Don't you have to go to work today?













































I need to think about everything in this house!











You're not ready yet?



But I have to go by tonight!
























- I need to close the gate.






Look, I'm gonna be straight and untruthful, all you had to do was tell me. It's so easy.







That I'm the girl who dates the first person I meet.








- But I had to go there.

But obviously, you didn't want my company.
So, excuse me and good night!


























I only have an old grandmother.
Old and almost blind.

My father got away first.






























It's not a matter of time. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Beautiful!



































It's hard work, only done with the most beautiful carpets, valuable.

One day a new tenant moved in.




He was brought by Juliana, an old worker who also helps a little bit around the house.

The new tenant wasn't local.








"Not only young, but not old, Grandma."
And handsome?

He's also a handsome tenant.



























































What do you have to decide?







- Oh, that's cute!











I told him I was ready to run away with him, that I wanted to live with him, because without him, my life meant nothing.





I've been in a lot of trouble that I can't explain to you.













I swear to you, we'll be happy.








































































You want to look worse than you are.

I'm really glad we became friends.



What do you want me to say? I think... I need to find him and talk to him.







It's important to find out, instead of standing there... crying and waiting.
You need to set the exact time for a date by saying that you only want...
Anyway, you need to take the first step and see how he...




"Dear..."

- Great." "Dear Signor."









No. " I lived... I lived with one happy hope."
















- Even if we're just friends, no one said we should only talk about your troubles.






First you have to rewrite it, and then what are you gonna do?















When we first met, I didn't expect you to be my older brother.


Good night.





I'll be so happy or so unhappy that in both cases you won't like it.
- Good night.










You know what you need to do?





- No, I don't need it yet.
- See how bad you are?
































What's going on? What do you want from me?

































I'm really glad I met you.


Anyway, I was afraid you'd come to tell me that things were bad, but... but now...




















- Look, I'm sorry, I have to go.




I really have to go.







- I'm so happy!
























It's probably gonna be great... in a different way, what do you think, but what matters is the result, isn't it?




You're so good and sweet that I... I love you.







































Now I can tell you I was happy.













I need to talk to you.
I really need to talk to you.



















































You know you're cute?
























































I fell in love with you at first sight, I couldn't.








Maybe you can do it when you're happy, right?








I love you very much and I want you to be happy.









I'm glad you didn't take that letter.
I thank you for saving me from this last insult. - Nope.


































You need to be patient.


I'm not asking for any more! But if you feel it's possible, I'll wait for you as long as you want!
I'm so happy, Natalia, so happy! Because...





























I'd like you to fall asleep, but like fairy-tale characters who fall asleep to wake up only when they're happy.

One day you'll wake up and see that it's a beautiful day. The sun will shine.
And everything will be new, changed, pure.


































"What a beautiful day."




















































We need Stefano's help!




Pagello, we need to pump her out. Look, let's do this.















She needs milk.




You're happy, really happy.













































































Trust me, darling.


































You're getting worse.


























But if I were you, I'd buy a gray, more beautiful color.
It's a beautiful car, though.
































It's because of sweet georgio!


Stop, it's gonna be bad if we're seen.
















You know, Kabiria, you and I need to have a really serious conversation.



There's nothing wrong with us in Rome. Why is that?





- I don't need anyone.




Change the record, I'm happy.




























Look, this is the last time I'm gonna say this.






What do you want?











































Signora, the first part of our program has come to an end.




My friends would love to meet you. Please, please.























































































But I'm happy, I've had enough.












Let me think about the last one.




You're as handsome as your house.


































I want to tell you something important.















I need a drink. Let me have a drink.













You need to go to bed, you're tired.







I'd be happy if we could see each other sometimes. Every two or three days, and I'll be happy.























































I was told he was very sick.
What do you want?

















Honey, honey! I just thought he was coming on Wednesday.






















Honey, thank you, thank you.



















My parents died when I was little.














I'll buy the biggest one.





























I'm gonna ask for a big apartment next to the park.












What do you say in confession?







I feel bad.







I need some rest.

















































Hey, if you want a ball, go get it!
Take it if you want it!














































You can participate in an amazing experiment. Now we need a representative of the beautiful sex.

















Beautiful.

Beautiful.








No, when I was a kid, I was swimming down the river.




We'll call her "The Brave One." We can't find a better boat in the bad weather.



The weather is beautiful, the sea is calm.




The sea of blue is calm, quiet and transparent.





The waves are big, the storm is starting!



























Who needs it?



He's handsome and healthy.








What's wrong with you? I'm very happy for you.











I think she'll be happy.

I'm glad I introduced you.




Signorina, look, Oscar offers you a hand, there's nothing wrong with that.

























Actually, I need a house full of kids and a wife like you.

I had beautiful black hair that fell on my shoulders.























It's a beautiful performance, it's a great thing!















































What happened tonight is very important to me.




























You can't break up like that. There's still a lot to tell you.























I'm glad you came.















We've been watching a beautiful film called Gladiators, about Christian martyrs.
True, the movie changed everything, but he explained that it was necessary for the script.

It's because I understand him. You may not believe it, but he's handsome, young.



































We lived in Podnopolia, a small village.

I grew up in a big house with kerosene lamps.















































I want that from the first time we met.





Thank your lucky star that I'm not like the others.












I want to marry you because I need you.

















































It's more expensive to take with you. And then, he sold everything, too, and I have to.

Let's start over, a new life.



















Very nice.
















I'm so happy I'm gonna fall and cry.




- They're cute, aren't they?




















But I'd be happy to spend my money.























Just think, at my age, someone needs me!













I guess it wasn't very old yet.










Bad boy.












Let's go to the lake, see the sunset, it's beautiful.
















































The French gathered their last forces at the Marna River... and suddenly took a series of counter-attacks, throwing the Germans back.






It's really good to see you.








Paul, I have an important conversation for you.





































You're an acting general. You need one now.










People are the most important thing, Georges.




The life of a soldier is more important to me than all the orders and medals of France.





















Ready to hit the Germans?

Private Ferol, First Division.






Ready to hit the Germans?








Ready to hit the Germans?
























He will raise the fighting spirit of the soldiers of the 700st regiment.


- Good to see you, Colonel.





















Beautiful view, but from the top would be better.

































































This is the last refuge of the bastards.





You need to rest.












































Are you ready?







































No worse than mine:


































The first battalion will move out at 5:30.




With a great deal of time, the enemy will prepare itself.




































All connections are ready.








































I need to have it in writing to do it.



















Major St. Oben, immediately remove 700 of the first regiment.



























I agree with you, General Brular.





















If you need an example, one person will replace a hundred.












Let it be: the commander of each company... chooses one person from the first wave.

















Colonel, I'll be glad to see you again.






Wait for new orders.


























General Miro believes that the offensive failed... due to a lack of effort on the part of the first battalion.
































I'll emphasize everything that matters.


















Were you in the first wave during the attack?













































I knew we needed a hill, but we came back.
























































Just a big head wound.














I wasn't allowed to present evidence that I considered vital to the defense.















It needs to be done quickly, without delay.












So-called last dinner?

He's the last one.






What's wrong with that?





























- you have to prepare for the worst.














God always listens to prayers.
















Get out of here, we don't need your sermons.









































































It's always good to see you.




















































The worst is over.























That's the last thing you can do.



































On behalf of the French people... Corporal Philip Paris, Private Maurice Ferol and Private Pierre Arnault... of the seven hundred first regiment... have been found guilty of cowardice in the face of the enemy and will... be executed without delay... in accordance with the decision of the Tribunal.


Need a bandage?


Need a bandage?




I'm glad you were able to attend.














































- Doesn't matter.






I'm sorry I didn't call you an idiot and an old sadist.


















































Then I'll marry the first person I meet who comes around.

To the first person I met! Go on.



































I hope, dear monsieur, that you will do us the honor of escorting Monsieur Compardon to another evening.





























She's calmer with Gasparina.

- Our new boarding house.



God, he's grown up since we last met.


Thank you very much.












We're having breakfast at 2:30, and we're having lunch at 4:30.


Achilles must have told you - my health is my greatest concern.


Good night, darling. Goodbye, my love.
Good night, madam.

Everything else is bad.









































That's what our Bertha needs.


















Good night, Dad.






You went into the small living room, and I calmed down.












































You're a beautiful girl. Show yourself.
























- Good night.


I'll be right back, honey, don't close the door.




















Nice to meet you.
Good night, madam.








He arrived last night, and he already met six beautiful women.












He's here. Good night.
Good night.











And with a pretty head?













She's having a nervous breakdown, she needs peace.








































Last Sunday's like a normal day's work.



















That's it? So you're on the ground floor for now.









































Very beautiful.






Darling, show Monsieur Moore your last watermelon.




You have a great talent, Mademoiselle.















- She's very beautiful, too.

















I just saw you as a little girl.
My first ballet dress, though, it's still the same.
It's very beautiful.





Who did you try your first ball dress with?



First dress, first ball, first dance.




Your first kiss.




- Thank you. - Thank you, dear friend.

























Then, my dear, we are compatriots.














I'm gonna stop you from sneaking out for the first person you meet.
















You know, their store on the ground floor is barely making ends meet.

Old Wabre refused to give the money promised for the store.


Yeah, but Wabra needs cash, and a lot.




Fifty thousand, I found a great replacement for them.







He doesn't need cash until he gets his inheritance.





Hello, dear Monsieur August.
How nice of you to come, despite the terrible migraine.














Oh, yeah, I remember. No doubt you're Mr. Compardon's new boarding houser.









Yes, dear madam, I said our factory board decided...














Clients don't need that.
It's not about whether they want it or not, it's about how to sell it.



















Anything soft, beautiful like you?







































Then you need a Creton.












If anything happens, I'll cut you off as much as you need.






















Beautiful, but not extradited without a dowry.





















Leave me alone, I don't need you anymore.









- What a beautiful newlywed.


It's the most beautiful day of my life.


Excuse me, darling.

I'm so happy for you, darling.





























Clotilda, at least today we're gonna forget our little claims.



























It's beautiful. Really?





















































































Let's not talk about it anymore.







Here's what's gonna happen to you and your decent wives, my dear.

























































Is Madame Edouane so beautiful?








- Thank you, you're very nice.













And I'm sitting like an idiot with a beautiful woman and I don't dare kiss her.




They're happy.

Come on in, darling.
Meet my friend Octave Moore. Young man, he has a big future.






Coffee's ready.



And what did I bring my little rare pearl?













Well, my dear, that's the family.




























- Wabra's store is old and reliable.
- Old stores are out of time.






We need a big store, not a dark basement with a product of unknown origin.
























And you're gonna be the first customer, because you're not very happy when you're at the store all the time.












- The mistake is so small.























And they hired a new maid to follow me.






If you can't give me happiness, it's worse for you.
I'll be happy alone.
Happy, happy, happy!





















































I have a beautiful body.








Paints Leed, and she's not the first person to meet her.




And then, darling, it's better to have a beautiful body than a nasty face.



















Nice to meet you.


Now there are two quiet days.

































I'm at your disposal if you need my services.






I guess you don't need me anymore.



































































I need money to buy.

















- Sweetheart, it's a triumph.



I told you, my dear, he's a genius in business.











































- Dear cousin, we'll walk you out.































I thought I'd make you happy.

















I don't want to take a new order.




























Do you like the new mistress?



















The other day, I caught her on the service ladder. And the day before yesterday, even better, in a new dress. A gift from Octava.



















































































They will, they will. That's the way it's supposed to be.













- Until the last one.

















































If I did, I'd be happier.



















































First of all, I need Trublo. - Why?










- Duverier? That's sweet.

What an excellent opportunity to settle a matter of honour.



































































































































I didn't bring any women here. There's a lot of them, and they're all beautiful.




























My darling, I've sorted it out.





















To express regret for what made Bertha happy?































- Is that your last word?
- The latest.





Thank you very much, my dear, for understanding.












Tell him it's an important, urgent matter.



























































But this is the last victim I'm going to, Madame Moore.

- Another big gun.








I think it's too big.

General Juve needs the gun.













I need General Larena's bet.












General Larena has to hand him the big gun... and the men to get her to Santander.






















I need six thick logs.




















































Captain, you need a gun in Santander and I need a gun in Ávila.





















And you need it.









We need him.









Beautiful.
So we need an example.


Until the last woman and child in Ávila, until someone talks and tells us where the gun is.








But when he has a target, he becomes a new army.













We need a hundred logs.





































We need help.













He's got a beautiful uniform.





























Okay. We're ready.

I need five men.















I'm ready.



















- Go, we don't need you.






























- not a couple either. - I'm willing to take my chances.




That's not necessary.



To pull a gun, we need strength.



I'm as good as they are.


You're young, brave, strong and handsome.


















- We need food.
- Helping the peasants is more important.



































Beautiful.
Beautiful.





































I need more than 500 pounds of gunpowder.
Do you need it?








































I'm gonna need a new dress.










You tell him how one day in distant Spain you met an English captain... and made him the happiest man.







































We need to go south to get to Avila.
Which means we need to get through here.


We're a little embarrassed, but we all have wives and kids. We're not ready to die for that gun.
- We need help.




- We need them.




































We need tools, a blacksmith, and shelter from the French.











My son, the power of the house of God is great. But the gun doesn't read prayers.





















































The Spaniards are waiting for the moment of truth. They're ready to die and bleed the earth with their blood.























Good night.
Good night.











































































If you want a guide, it's what it is!





Really, I'm not sure if Ben is going to accompany the new hunters right now.












Well, here we go.













He's really happy about that, isn't he?


































































Honey!


The safety valve is supposed to be closed in service, as I've already told you at least 60 times!

























Oh, honey, Meg!
What's wrong with us, darling?





































































And I don't need another guide.
I need you!





















I'd love to!








It's awful good to see you, Meg.



I missed you, sweetheart.























I know, honey.


Well, I got on the first plane to San Francisco, but... you weren't there.


I see, sweetheart.









I know, honey.









I need a single room with a bathroom.


First door to the right.




























Listen, honey.





I'm glad you came down!






Honey, this time I have something big... bigger than you can imagine.


But, honey... you seem to have misunderstood me.




Listen, darling...











It's just the disappearance of a big pile of banknotes with a picture of Ben Franklin.



But for the money I'm willing to pay, we can hire any guide.





To our new beginning, sweetheart!
- Your dinner is ready, sir.







But why worry about it, darling?


And that's very important!









No, you have to see Ben first - you and me too!



























































I was just trying to stop you, darling.

- Oh, Meg, honey!





- Feeling better, sweetheart?



















































All she has to do is tell the truth.













- I don't need blood, I need you!



























You don't think I'm gonna appreciate your wife more than you are, do you?























































He almost beat you up, sweetheart.






















Most of the time, get up.







































Well, we don't need it.















There's a rock upstairs... I used to get caught up in my first attempt.







Well, Denning! You first!












Hey! What a lovely underwear you have!

















I'm so sorry, honey.
You have to play it like that when you're in a bad position.






































I'm ready to go day and night with you, Cameron!
But I'd like to know why it's necessary.








I'm sorry about what happened to that old man, honey.













- Listen to me, sweetheart!
The first thing they teach in the Marines is to keep themselves safe.
In the first place, you're the one.









Don't think about the past, sweetheart.



- Wait a minute, honey!











We don't need him anymore.











So we don't need Ben.


Come on, honey!





Honey, we've overcome all the obstacles.



































































I'm bad, Ben.





































Honey...
Honey, you got a fever!

















I need something dry that can be set on fire.

























































Quiet! Easy, sweetheart.








That's it, honey!






It's over, honey!

















Honey, you're gonna be such an old aunt.







But... you... you loved that barren, old piece of desert!





Listen, darling! We've seen two murders.




We're all tied up now, sweetheart.
We need the money to make it.


Me, honey?

I'd buy you new shoes.


I guess I should've knocked...








Good night, Cameron!










































I suppose you'd be willing to do that for me?









She needs a doctor!

























- Ben, we need a dock!


More... a little more, okay, darling?





































Probably the first decent thing to do in years and he died because of it!

- It's okay, honey!














And seven angels with seven trumpets, ready to blow.





- You ready?























































In the golden crown and in the blue dress with flowers, Bosai, and the small and dark hands, and she held the baby, and taught him to walk.















Did you or did you not tell me I had to sleep in the morning?












I wrote a new song last night.





















Not bad.






- I'm sure it's a bad part.


















- Why not make them happier?
- Why should everyone be happy?














































- You need assurances.
































But I want to use my respite for the only important thing I've ever done.

















You understand, my dear...



















And he doesn't need heaven, and he doesn't need hell...






The best medicine, the blood, and the bile of a big black dog.


























Are you okay?





- He was the bad guy.













Despite these thoughts, I need a housewife.







































Or do you not know that your last hour is near?



Who's gonna be his first victim?


















I've read, heard and had a lot of experience in many stories transmitted from generation to generation.



































- It's a beautiful thing, but I think it's expensive too.





If she has such bad taste, let her go.





















































Yeah, it's pretty big.

- You don't think it was bad?






































































You have a wonderful son.







If the knight joins us, it would be a great honor for us.














I've never seen such a big one.







That's what I'm saying, a good offer, but I need to think about it.






























You look so important.


I groaned her eyes, her nose, her graceful little ears.







Now you don't look so important.































Their names are Yov and Mia, they have a little son?




























Be happy!

I'll walk through their chests with a small hammer.




Listen to me, you idiot, love is just a beautiful word, which means it's lust, lust, and once again lust, favored by all lies, deception, and deception.







If everything is imperfect in our imperfect world, love is first and foremost.











- My little brother...






































- Dear Plog, forgive me for everything.
















- My dear Plog... if you think I'm gonna defend myself, you're wrong.








Dear friend, I am lowering this dagger at the call of my heart.
And my essence quickly transforms into a new, cleaner.













- Okay, you got your little Lisa back.
- Aren't you happy?

- Isn't life beautiful...









I'm a little bird who sings whatever she wants.

How beautiful.


























- The trees are so calm.

- He means they're very calm.
Very calm.




































I just need to reach out, and I can feel it.




































It's a little child...
































































































- And it's very big...






















And they were ready to blow through.
"The first angel smashed



















I'm a blacksmith by trade, and I'm not bad, I'll tell you that.











Enjoy your last minute - get your eyes dirty and move your fingers.



















In beautiful places like Natchez and Wicksburg.








No, business comes first.







































































































It's almost like a new one.


Come out first.





















































So you could exist when your old grandfather stopped bothering you.



Then one day, you turned out to be a grown-up.

You don't have to hang your nose because of some stupid corn liquor law.



















Come on, honey. Sit down!








We need to get ready for the dance festival.




















It's not that small.




Young, but sweet.

































Well, what do you need them for?

















I've been working on them for the last couple of years.
These are the biggest, fattest, red, early tomatoes in the whole state!


















It's the biggest kitchen I've ever seen, Pete!













Once a year, the old houses around here are open to the public.



















































It's an old Southern custom.







I'm not as old as I thought I was.











Good morning, darling.



































I don't think you want the ones whose relatives are in prison.














































No one can want more!


















You know, there's gonna be a new crop later.





Like it used to be in the old days.





Do what you see fit, and leave the rest to God.








I'm glad you're here.








My sweetheart knows how much I'm waiting for him to come.





That's so sweet, Tammy.
































If it wasn't for this property, I'd be living in New Orleans, the French Quarter.


I'm too old.



























A lot of important people will visit us at Pilgrim Week.

Try to speak a little less from now on.


There were times when she was nice and polite like you.






Well, there's something you need to know, Tammy.

You only have to talk when you have something to say.
But it's a thousand times more important that you have something in you, Tammy.


















































There's no point in not using this beautiful, private place.




























Beautiful!



















The first time I saw you, I said, "It's her."






















































Oh, I'm glad, Pete!


































"After my last sermon, the judge reduced my sentence.

This is the first time I've held a meeting and no one's left.














I'm glad, my boy.








I'm pleased to introduce Miss Tembley Tyrey.





But in this world, ham and eggs are more important than moods.






















If I was as beautiful as Barbara, I would know what to do.






Okay, you can just tell Nan that she doesn't need to worry anymore.

Oh, I'm glad, Pete.



















We need to eat well.








Not bad.
















































I've never seen anything more beautiful.















You're beautiful, Miss Rainey.



I needed to have some fun.




















My grandfather saw her and fell in love at first sight.




Beautiful lines.





Isn't that beautiful?
































I came to this big house to sell fresh eggs.

We need eggs.



I'm pleased to introduce Grandma Kretcher, who came from Virginia... to make a pilgrimage.




















That's cute!
You look incredible, my dear!
Oh, that's so sweet of you.















And remember, gentlemen, the mint needs to be pressed slowly and carefully.




The old judge gave it to his fiancée... and the plates came from Paris.


What a beautiful dress you wear.
















He had an old violin with horse hair strings.
His music was so cute that the birds came to listen to him.








And his name was Little Arfa.

And a laughingbird and a little jerk and sparrow... until all the canyons are left.







That's how Little Arfa took away not only the violin, but all our fortunes, leaving us in tears.













And he made me a beautiful lady. And he cut out this comb for my hair.




































It was a nice joke, Miss.



Something from Miss Renee... I linked it to my grandfather's old story. Grandpa?











Don't, Tammy!











Of those who work on earth to give her a new life!





























When the Week of Pilgrimage is over, I'm going to New Orleans.



Ana, if Peter doesn't need it, I can sell it.





















I know, but you're only gonna make it worse.

You're gonna give her new pain by bringing her back.
Unless, of course, you're ready to do something.



















She'll be much happier by the river.



Barbara, we need to face the truth.




She made me realize that when people really love, they're willing to make any sacrifices for each other.




























Great! Must be nice living and working as a legal corporation.
You're so happy!




Little steps, Sir Wilfried.
We have to remember that we had a little heart attack.



Thank you all very much.

Sir Wilfried, if you don't mind, I'll read you a little poem, we wrote it in honor of your return.




What's wrong with you? Nothing, I'm just happy you're still the same.





Ugly, old, moldy.











Yeah, yeah, the first murder case.
















Beautiful calm cases with high fees.






They'd take a bigger box, they'd add naphthalenes, and they'd take me out, too.



























No, sir, you don't have to go upstairs.




















Sir Wilfried has everything he needs.













According to Mr. Mayhew, I'm not doing well.









Don't worry, I'm not taking this case, it's just that Mayhew's an old friend, he needs help.



































We think you can shed some light on some important things.
















Cristina, this is my wife, she thinks I'm gonna be suspected, and I need a lawyer.

Now he thinks he needs a lawyer.




I need her not even to find the ashes.





















































The last job is a mechanic at a maintenance firm.





















































































We need to buy one. Is it expensive?











Beautiful guy.

























We talked, played cards, listened to her old records.


































I was hoping for a loan for my new invention.






















As for your business... they're not bad, they're terrible.





It was a beautiful evening.













I'm glad you got out.
















No, no, it's very logical, at first glance.









We need to call Kristina.










This is our old friend Inspector Hirne.














Well, I'm ready.






















And we're only gonna have a little scarecrow... an alibi prepared by his wife. It's a tough fight.



Beautiful.



But you're right, Carter, it's too much for the first day.



















Dear Mrs. Vole, I'm afraid we have some bad news for you.





I'm glad you took it so hard.
















We need to get ready for bed. Think of the beautiful.
















































So you're calmer?
Mrs. Vole, this is very important.








Or because of the accent. Dear Mrs. Vole, in our court, we only take the testimony of talkers in Bulgarian, who need an interpreter, and even deaf people who can't speak at all.

You know, of course, that when I call you as a witness, you're gonna have to swear an oath and testify under oath?














































































Some forms are very complicated. Here's another hint that you might have helped her make a new will.


















We've never broken up since we first met.


The first time we met, the ceiling fell on me.






















This is the costume I wore in the first raid on Hamburg.






































It's bad today.































It was beautiful.

Cristina was so happy when she first saw her, she cried.



















I'm telling you, I'm scared. I need her.






























Among the witnesses will be a representative of the police, a housekeeper, Mrs. French Janet McKenzie, an expert at the medical lab, and an attorney in Mrs. French's case, who made up her last will.





Nervous burn. I always have it on the first day of the trial.
































































































































































Then she said goodbye and came home. I went to the living room to see if the mistress needed anything before bed, and she was there... dead!



















She cancelled the old will and wrote a new one.



Did you hear Mrs. French and the accused discuss her new will?









On the old, revoked will, didn't you get a lion's share of Mrs. French's fortune?

While according to the new will, with the exception of a small annual rent, the main heir is the accused Leonard Vole?
















































However, you claim that by passing a door full of oak four inches thick, you heard voices and were ready to swear, you could tell the voice of the accused Leonard Vole.




Dear Miss McKenzie, given the nonsense you're saying these days, you're barely losing anything.






No, Your Honor. Now I'm calling the last prosecution witness, Christine Helm.

































































That woman was a harmless old fool, and he made me an accomplice to the murder.













However, Mrs. Helm, it seems that when you first met the defendant in Hamburg, you lied to him about your marital status.















And now you've told us a whole new story today.





















Sir Wilfried, are you ready to defend yourself?


































Next, Mr. Vole, on your last visit to Mrs. French, were you wearing a wet cape and a brown hat?





So it would be nice for the defense to know that at the last moment the witness who saw him in those clothes did find him. The defendant was indeed seen in this coat and in this hat, but unfortunately not on the night of the murder, but just a week before.






I had a bad time with the money.




So you admit you handled the most expensive and gorgeous cruises.



On the morning of that day, according to Mr. Strokes, you found out that Mrs. French had changed her will and left you most of the money.





And as they passed the window, they saw beautiful posters - sea, palm trees, Greek islands, or something like that.













She seemed to be extremely sane and calm.



























Try it on if you need it tomorrow.
My dear, I'm in the middle of a trial.


Upstairs, Sir Wilfried. You need a warm bath and a calcium shot.





















This isn't your last case.


The only thing that matters is his life.

If I can't stand up to say the last word in his favor, I'll do it sitting down.




Call this old snooper.





It's a big deal.
















If you want some dirt on that German wallet, come over.











I'm too old and sick to do crazy things. Here we go, Mayhew.
















You don't need names.

Little one, boys?















All right? If the letters contain information useful for the defense, I'm willing to offer ten pounds.


Good night, gentlemen.

























And one day, he took off.



























Given that the defence has named only one witness, the accused, she has the right to speak last.
Mr. Myers, please, the final word of the prosecution.









I looked forward to my colleague &apos; s objections and stood ready to meet them with examples of similar precedents.





So, what's this new intel, Sir Wilfried?










If you still have any doubts about Leonard Vole, I don't mind betting on a little box of cigars.





























I write letters on little blue leaves with my initials.







































It's all packed and ready, Doctor.








































Are you ready, sir?







But my noose went on the last couple of stockings.


























Thanks for the compliment. I haven't been an actress in a long time, but I've never had such an important role.



It was just Leonard, just him. Honey, you should have trusted me. Honestly and irresistibly.

































This Janet McKenzie... we'll buy a new hearing aid.
And you have a new thermos.







And this sweet girl, I met her in the process.




























Are you ready? Or better to be judged for...




















Well, I'm glad Africa hasn't changed at all.






























I'm sorry that your first night after you came here, that's how it started.
We're here to swim quietly, but we've already arrived.








In a few days, I'm gonna dress your beautiful body up in diamonds from head to toe.


That was nice.


I'll fill them with a cute little box rented from the First National Bank of New York.










The boat is ready, sir.













































We need to bury the poor guy.





These are the graves of the first to come for the diamonds.






The first Americans showed up here 10 years later, in 1938.


The first is for a dead sailor.








- Let's have a big guest room.















I think I'd die happy if I could finish my research.


There are worse things.
The bodies here need to be buried quickly, Dr. Eggert.

































They know from somewhere that I don't want their precious treasures.
































If they ever find the diamonds, they'll be happy to destroy them.




































Today, when Sam took me home, we hit one of these people on the road less than a mile from here.



























































I'll bet Little Miss Honey and Sunshine tried to trap you.
There's no doubt that she and this old witch are behind all this.








You old hag!






















We need to leave.




















- So it didn't hit vital organs.






Well, they don't need to breathe underwater.


- Last call?

















What, so bad?






It's not getting any worse.
































































Beautiful.





What do you want? An update every 10 minutes?
















































































You're okay. I'm so glad...


























Let them stay. In the first bedroom.











I need to find her a doctor.














Tell Sam to bring as many big candles as he can find.





































Okay. I'll go first.














The first noose should fall off any minute.



























































- You're in great shape to run.





Is that what you need? So get it!























I think we should get in the car, take Mona and get out.













































They need diamonds.

























































































If a person is handsome, does everything say goodbye to him?
































































Fortune sometimes needs help.


































































I'd love to, but I already promised I'd have dinner with Steve.














































































My husband's been talking about you lately.
It's so nice to meet you!

















































- I'll be happy to help.








































- I'd love to be with you. - Thank you.







Steve was arrested, we met, and now we're having dinner alone. I didn't dare think of that! - Are you happy?










He needs the noise, the crowd, the lights...










Thank you for a lovely evening.























- I have to go.










How am I worse than flu or angina?
- I'll do anything for you, love. - My darling!


What a beautiful picture!




























You're a great worker, but this is my last warning.

























Georges, I love you so much! I need your attention. I'd better...











What do you want?


The photos are ready.

























Good to see you.



















I'm glad you're friends with him.



I'll be happy to work with you.









You work there, it's not on the ground floor, and it's a private bank.








- Don't, darling.


















There are three big windows in the bank.









But there's still one very important problem.
And you need my help?































The preparations for our little expedition are well under way.

































I don't have any more money.












You have no choice, my dear.



- There's nothing worse than a report.













My dear...

Do you need help?



















How did you sleep, sir? Beautiful.






















































What do you have to do to do that?



You have to put 50,000 francs in the account.


















If he gets sick, call him.











You came to work first that day.





















































- We don't need that, darling.








I want to start a new life.




You won't be happy with me.














































- Old song.
























- Worse.




It's really good to see you.













Sometimes you have to do hard things. - What do you want?























But we need honest people.






















































































































































According to my calculations, you've earned a lot of money in the last month.



























It was dangerous to play at the races. I have a new idea.










- I'm tired of this existence. - I understand you, darling.
But it takes a lot of money to leave.

- That's what I said. - What does he want?







Are you willing to take the risk for a lot of money?

Depends on how much risk and how much money there is.






































































You'll probably lose most of the money.













- Thank you very much.





































My dear...
I'm glad I got rich.

We're rich, my dear. 18 million!
We can start a new life.



















































Honey!








What do you want?






















The color, of course, can make a woman more beautiful and make her more attractive.





An important element of your beauty and the most scientifically and financially efficient one is the massage of cold cream before bed.

Explosion freshness and charm, "Kiss me" is a new cosmetic cream that will make you look better.
Our latest achievement in cosmetic creams will bleach and decorate your skin, because it contains five major cosmetic elements selected with particular care in America, France,







The right choice for a wedding is kimono and Japanese hair, although the latter can be replaced by wig.









It honors the last viceroy of God on earth, Emperor Maiji, and the grandfather of the present emperor, who died 50 years ago.








I'm so happy.
- First time?



























































You're into it, sweetheart.



















This war will end with a new revolution.
































































Worse!





























It's nasty, it's smelly, it's worse than that.





















And there are worse tests ahead.












































As long as the Cossacks sing, there's no big trouble.








































































































































































































Ilya, honey...

























































































- My darlings...


Karga's old, and that's before the zipper.



They weren't in the nostril year, they weren't in the shop, they were in the old time to wear stuffed clothes.
What are you doing, you old bastard?



He took the first prize in the emperor's watch.





















































































































































































































































































































































The old cow's getting started. Dokel, you're gonna steal it.







And the man with the Big Thunder said the Reds were coming up to the Vests.




























































- I need a chairman.




















































































































































































































I'll drive the first hundred by myself!




































Take off your coat. Thank you very much.












- Thank you very much.




















What should we do first?
I don't know, first math.























To divide a number by a fraction by a fraction, you have to multiply that number by...














































The unit must always be crossed out.


But in general, the unit is very important.























To divide, you have to multiply



















First you said you had to understand, now you don't have to.














You're all displeased: first you said you needed to replace
Now, to divide, you have to multiply.








If you're gonna split a fraction by a fraction, you're gonna have to multiply it.

First drop to reverse second.











You'll leave as you see fit. Goodbye.



















I don't know what to say.































































And more than that, you're happy to think that you'll be skating.
Well, happy... more like, I just want to ride.




If I tell you, you don't get the direction you need to move in.
After all, it's your feelings that matter, not mine.




Okay, let's get back to the first word.










Besides, you know, the maid's always in a hurry and she's a bad joke.
















What's that for?



Besides, you can't say you have to write stupid things.
Yeah, but in some cases, you have to talk as much as you can to be more convincing.





















Besides, my mom said you could leave whenever you wanted.















Yeah? Thank you very much.





















I see. Saga PD is ready to give you all the help you need. Please, don't be shy.


That's what we need.


Why is it so expensive?









Nice place. That's what I need.











It's a happy family.



















The bath's ready.












I mean, this woman-- she looks a lot older and so calm.















































The first time I said, "Let's try it."















You have water-cooled motors for the hammer, don't you? My family needs one.






But also, the DEA... do as I say. The flowers are still very small.







I guess it's a big clean-up.



























Now he's got a lot more than he needs to travel.
Yes. He's been thinking about the girl all the time lately.




























Here you go. Thank you very much.



Pretty. Very nice.





It's not the worst thing... when they first got married, he hung a lock on a rice box.






















Wow, Tay-chan, you have such a big one.









Thank you very much.

















He haven't shown up lately?





































































Who else needs tickets?
























We need to go to his home country to Yamaghuti prefecture. Probably.






































If you don't want her, okay. Just give me a clear answer.










































It's important that the press don't find out about her.



- Have a nice day. - Thank you very much.




But in the last few days, I've felt sorry for her... compassion...














Thank you very much.

























































































We're all set to explode. In the Sanctuary!






































23,000 Ian a month after taxes. Not so bad.


Really? I'm glad to hear it.


























You've become happy, Sadako.








If only I didn't have to go to Tokyo...








When you wanted to go to Tokyo, I didn't need to think about it.







But it was a big mistake.











There are large buildings in the row.





I'm so glad I went to Tokyo. I'm very happy.
































































Start a new life.





You're still young. You're gonna have a new life.







At last you will see the poor Faust, overcome by bad dreams, ready to repent, yet giving way to the Devil's temptation, cursed forever.






























The chicks were full, but the first people we met didn't like us.

We, first of all, Dani in his T-shirt, just couldn't help but notice.



























And killing yourself isn't so bad!
















































It's not that bad to start with.




















All we have to do is get to the ready.
















And you need to take her somewhere.


















I was in my last breath, and my friend wasn't doing much better.




















Everyone has come their way to the sea.


























I liked swimming on an old boat.

The boat is my father's most expensive inheritance.












































I know, I know, you're a big man.












- We need capital.



























































- Oh, he's a big dealer.










































- On a big rock, okay?



















Before the sacred journey, before the great journey, we must make a friendship vow together.


























I'm not gonna sit on a pot, I'm big!


































I'm sorry, but you don't know the latest maritime laws.







































I got out of the house so I could eat less.



















































You know, sir, you won't be in the right place, I'll put the kids on the train and go home.














Maybe he should take something from his relatives.


















- This is the first time I've heard...

- Honey, did you bring the baby?




















































































Take it and hide it, open it when it's too bad.










Have a good trip!








Sorry, the last one's gone.






















































I bought them tickets with the last money.





































If we were big, we'd jump in the car.



























































































Beautiful señorita, may I invite you to tango?














- A big ship!
Uncle Tiburzius, the big ship at sea!

















"Vitukas, open it when it's very, very bad... do you promise?"











- I really need them...

































His first trip.
Who knows, maybe in a year or two I'll meet these cute boys at sea.













































Monsieur, darling, have the Germans left Warsaw yet?









































Budapest is a beautiful city.

























Beautiful night.






























































A very important mission.





































































Thank you very much.




Thank you very much.















You old bitch!


My own is always the worst.









We'll have to come back tomorrow.




















The Hungarians are setting the conditions: we have to tell them before lunch tomorrow.

















They're willing to join us, but they demand a guarantee that the Bolsheviks recognize them as allies.











- I need to get out of here for a while.







Mother's sick. Dear Mother.



Yeah, yeah, gangsters, plutocrats, Bolsheviks, Communists, but mother, dear mother.




Last one.





to beautiful eyes.
Not for beautiful eyes at all.










It's a big deal! - Colonel's waiting for me!




I told you, I have something important to do with your colonel.



























- But Colonel, we have to give them these guarantees, let them be.





































































"How beautiful in the war..." No.































I've got to get to the Hungarians!



















Didi, darling, what's wrong with you?


I'm gonna go, darling, move it!









Smorodine. I should have legalized myself.





And yet you haven't been hurt much.































You need to rest after that runner.







































We have new friends.













We broke up on the last day of September in 1939. When the Germans drove us to Skernevice camp.





















It was a fine officer.
























































































You see, in the first year, I admired the Alps, drew the Alps, drew...














And he's only here for the first day.


You pray day and night and fall asleep at the most important moment!






























I had to go around the woods.



























If it's too expensive for you, buy yourself beans.














We have to wait a couple of weeks.



















- You have to be Zawistsky.



- You think there's gonna be a new war?












Dombecki and I are ready to withdraw our complaints from the court of officer honor.
























I don't need those cigarettes.







































It was even worse in the summer.


The dark is the worst.





A man needs a little to live.
The worst part is loneliness.
















What's new on the front?

I'm sorry you need to leave by now.











I'm very glad you accepted my invitation. - Thank you!


































Who needs strawberries?













One's ready.











This last one killed him.

























Beautiful.




















We need to do this for him.








Maybe someone ratted out a junkie machine in the first room.



















It's okay.
















































































































































































































He said: Tell Commissioner Megre that the marsh killer killed a new victim.





























I'd like to do you a favor, Mr. Director.












I need a suspect, not a joke.













































From the first May, when he committed his first crime, he committed new 20 June, 10 July, and 2 August.















The last victim was on his way to work, and the previous two were on their way home.

So you have a wide choice. She's asking me if we should talk to passers-by?





















That's what I need you for.










In that case, my dear, it remains to be wished to see to the end of the matter.






















Soundly, your little number turned out to be pretty good.

















































I should have called me.









I'm gonna need names and addresses for everyone who's gonna be there.





There's plenty of room. Always the last to come...


















































































































This Madame Moran is an old bastard.


I said Mother Moran is an old bastard.





























I may have to talk to him, but not about our little stories.


























No, no, no one's gonna reveal your little secret.















































But not the one you need.



First one of the suspects.


























Beautiful woman. Well, Monsieur Moran, all I have to do is thank you for your warm welcome.














It's always cheaper for an expensive tailor to sew.



Usually, when I work, I wear a simple shirt and old pants.





















I was followed all night by that little inspector.







Admit it. It's all new.




























A new castle? The key won't open.
























What about the little door?
There's a small door behind the dumpsters downstairs.














Borbero is neither bad nor good.




































































































Yeah, the first time she heard from a maid who didn't know.







































































- Old?








































One day, his affair lasted longer than anyone else.




I wanted to cheat on him too... with the first person I met.














I wonder how I could have come there for the first time.








































- Not yet. There's nothing here, at first glance.













Nothing's missing at first sight. Look, wait, you had six suits.



Yvonne, darling.



















There's nothing missing here at first sight, either.

















I didn't do anything wrong. I'm going on vacation.





























It was handed out at the establishment on May 1st, when Yvonne Moran came here for the first time.


Isn't it May 1st?



















She may think her husband is a little god and won't be angry that I cleaned his boots.
But still, on May 1st, from 5 to 7 she had a wedding night. And the thing that pisses her off most is that I noticed it.



May 1st doesn't tell you anything?


It's the day of the first murder.





















You're gonna work for 20 years, you're gonna have your little freaks, too.















































Right, because... that was the first of May, that's when it all started, isn't it?
I mean, on the first of May, you met this... Jojo?

May 1st...........................................



The more men are windy, the less they allow them to cheat.



Despite his mistresses, on May 1st, he reacted with a rather violent reaction.




During this conversation, did he find out you were on Star Street? Yes. May 1st, too?




















What happened on May 1st? Don't you think it's time I said that?














































No, you know, it was an old suit.













































I don't want to admit I know about the little door.
A little door?

Such a small door. No, don't tell me you don't know about her.




















Your mom's here. What do you want from him?



Your son claims you have the key to the little door in your house.














Calm down, Mom. I don't need a lawyer.

Calm down, dear madam.

























And this is your case. You're a big kid, Moran.




It adds a mechanical crane and water from a small fountain.


















Well, since you won't be ready for a few more minutes, you write it down.









































You, like last time, ran through the backyards and walked into the house through a small door. They went up to your mother, and she gave you your father's costume.























































'Cause not only to get back at Yvonne, to teach you all those whores who refused you, you walked out on the street on May 1st and killed that girl.





























Do you understand me, my dear?




Good night, Judge.



















Ladies, you can be happy, your darling is free. Your chicken just left and could kill again.





















Love is a beautiful thing. And you loved your Marcel.






























You used to hold him and cherish him, it was the perfect wife, the new mommy.




















He's gonna save his own in a mental institution where he's gonna sleep alone on the bed with his toys, and he's gonna be happy.


She made the biggest sacrifice tonight.

















I hope you won't shut up. Be calm, Commissioner.










































































































Then why is it so bad?







- All praise be to Allah, well done.




































I'm waiting, darling.


















I thought you really had something important.




























































It's very important to me.









Try it on, Hanuma... - It's really beautiful.









- But I need you.



You're more beautiful than this picture!




You'll be the first beauty there.









































And he came first.

















































































New details of Rosetta's murder!


























So far, 32 people have come to me, and it takes another 18 to form a union.





















Hanume needs more to send a dowry to Faucus.


























































Kenavi, are you okay?




































- I need to find Hanuma's bucket.















All set, we'll go back to the village so I can say, "Here's my wife."


















It's a trick you need!








































- Are you happy?

I hope you meet a girl who'll make you happy.






























It's gonna be a big party with music, lights, and an orchestra.





















































































































































































- Good to see you.




Drink, you old fool!
















































Old Cristina said you were almost dead.

















Thank you. - What do you want?
























- Shut up. Beautiful. Like the first one.











I'm glad.



























































































































- Yeah, you're happy.






I'm really glad you came by.




























And in the first place, huh?







I forgot it's November 1st.


For All Saints' Day, only six old women!









Cure has a lot of beautiful sermons.
























- What? - You remember he was a beautiful man.



















































- You see, he's sick.
After you arrived, it got worse.







- That's not good. Yeah, bad.







Do you need him, Serge?



I need to see him.

I need to see him.
François... François... I need to see you.













And I need strength.






And I'm one day, too.
























- Thank you very much.


































































































The day after you arrived, I really needed you.









She's a little whore.












Yeah, if you're ready.

























I don't need your drink!



















































































See? They need to walk five kilometers to get home.



















































































































- You rarely come to see me. - I don't get out much lately.











You look worse.









- I think they need me. François!


They don't need you any more than I do. More than anyone at all.
I think we do.








They need... I don't know... an example.











And all your beautiful words are nothing, pride. One pride.



































Says this one's gonna be the same as the first one.













































































































We don't need him right now.


















































There was a lot of drugs in the bag.











I need a lawyer!






















What do you want?







You're not ready yet?
































We need to talk about Misaki.

























































































































































































Let... go first!



































































Last entry, July 25th.















































































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I have a very important case!





















































































I've been trying not to communicate with them lately.




If we study tactics, we'll know that... it doesn't match the old-fashioned Hanada gang style.

We need to get rid of the old mistakes and re-examine them.






















Lately, there have been suspicious personalities in Chicako's cabaret.






















































The frog has transformed... from radiation to a brand-new, liquid organism.







It says that those six on deck were the first victims.













Ironically, the same radiation created a new life form.


It's paradoxical, but according to our research... high-voltage rhyme and high-intensity fire, these are our two only options.





The last missing person in Homura was Uchida.






Destroying liquid people is more important than catching drug dealers.



























































- They're ready!

































































Fifth letter in the last two months.

The new joke is to report to the airline that there's a bomb on board.







It's something new.















There's a timer bomb on board 74. Order the crew to search for a small bag among the sanitary bags.












































Check, please, this is important.
It's very important.



















We need volunteers, two men who will go first and hold the stairwell.






At this very moment, the last passengers are landing, and FBI agents are taking them to the administration building to interrogate them.


Honey, is that you?











Jim, for the last time, what is it?



She looks incredibly small.
Such a small device caused so much anxiety... and could cause an incredible tragedy...

































One day he came to see me at work.









Twist him around his finger like the last punk.

















































I need a full set of everyone on board.







Start with the employees who've been fired in recent months.


Find out who might have had access to them in the last six months. But only those who could use those details.












A bomb like this could be planted anywhere.







- Exactly. In fact, the longer we wait, the more likely it is that he will abandon this plan and come up with something new.






It's bad enough you're pricing people's lives! It's bad enough you're trying to threaten to extort money! But why bring an innocent child here?








You might get away with kidnapping two adults, but a little girl is different.




Honey, don't.













That I'm playing a game where skill is important.




Run home, darling, find out what mom wanted.


Don't worry, darling, it's okay.


Pat, honey, we're going for a ride.

























I didn't think it'd be so beautiful in here!










Very nice. Very nice.











Right on the front page.











- They need us for something.



We'll escape at the earliest opportunity.

































- It's okay, honey, Mommy's here.
Looks like you need a drink.








I'm willing to bet she won't say anything.









I'm ready to let it go.














One little detail.

















































They need a lot more time to figure out where the call came from.





- Well, I thought they were very nice.









Do you have to look at me like that?
I don't need anything.

The money's supposed to be at the First National Bank tomorrow at exactly noon.

I need $500,000 in 20s, evenly out of all 12 federal reserve districts.








































































I'm a mother, it's a big difference.








- Thank you, thank you very much.

Yeah, honey, it's Mom.






























Consider classified bills, we need 2,084 from each county.

But what? I don't know. But I don't think it's gonna be some old trick like throwing money at the platform on the signal.

Exactly. We can tell them about the show, and they should be ready to break into any place in a few seconds.







We're gonna pass the instructions through him, he's gonna give them to you at any moment.




It's all set.



- Please, I'm happy to help.






















Last night, they took my husband and my little daughter away.
















That's the last thing we'd do.







































It's all set.












- Look, it's 11 minutes past 1.






















In the big house, I was wearing dark glasses, so I can't tell where he is.


















Chuck, first flight to Washington.







I had to wait.











































































Soon, darling.




























































































- I need some pictures of the tape.










Your husband and daughter should have missed death by about 30 seconds, and you're already looking at me with a depressing trust that's worse than a death sentence.























































She made things worse for herself.







Check again, it's very important. If you find anything, call me here.

































































I'm sorry to bother you at a time like this, but it's a big deal, believe me. Maybe her name is Kelly, but it could be anyone else.



I need to go to the hospital, my husband's dying.










Thank you very much, Doctor.





















We need Miss Eileen Kelly.





- I don't know, I don't know! We have to go before he calls the police!

We need to get out of here quick, the police are coming.























Kidnapped child and father released. Mother is still captured by a terrorist. It's bad, it's bad.
That's why these reporters always have to make a fuss? It's better to sell.






Not much has been achieved from Kelly either.
















For the last time, where is she?











































Because this bad man who took your mom, he can eavesdropping, and we don't want...










Honey, honey.

Jim, honey, is everything okay?
















Very soon, darling.



Jim, I'm so happy.






It's okay, honey, it's okay.

































- All set, sir.

- First patient.































You're a great cricket here at the training center, in the big clinics,















We're buying more! We're buying!
























She needs to stay home and not sell flowers for a week or two.
















- Oh, thank you very much, sir.









But I'm telling you, Doctor, he's very bad.









(Little harmonica)























































But we need you to write us a death certificate.
New Government Regulation.





























- What do you want?






We need a wagon.





























It's a wonderful tribute to my experience.

- Father, your idea of putting people in an unconscious state is nothing new.






And dad, you have a beautiful speed and a firm hand, never seen by anyone.






- But I'm trying to make a big deal out of it.












- I'm sure it's bad.



Good night, Father.
- Good night, Jonathan.
Good night, my dear.




- You're a very beautiful girl, and I'm not tired of telling you that.

- Good night.
- Good night.



















































- Well, we need to get permission from the committee, the board of trustees.







- Please tell them how important it is to the hospital's prestige that the first painless surgery was carried out in these walls.
- Are you sure you're ready for a demonstration?






I'll be ready.















- Of course it is, my dear.



- Father, bad news.











































































































We've got a new client.

























- Good to see you again, Doctor.





















- Come here, you little rat!

















I was testing a new drug.





























And when he comes, we'll be ready.

























- I've made some progress lately.



































- Good night, Uncle.





















And on the old chair with the pinta ale.










And on the old chair with the pinta ale.









"because she fills his bottle with beautiful gin."































All you have to do is sign a death certificate.
All you have to do is sign.




- You want your book, and the clinic needs bodies.










[Bolton's Voice] When I do my last experiments, when I inhale, the unconscious state comes quite quickly,







- Yes, my dear.















- I need these chemicals tonight after I'm done with surgery.







Because you have the amount I need.



















































- Oh, my dear Mrs Matthewson, how good to see you!




- I must say, Mr. Bolton, you missed a beautiful dinner.
- I went to the glass factory to order a new inhalers, it'll be much better than the previous one. Jonathan, my dear friend, pour your brandy to Dr. Matthewson.


















- Well, good night, dear Susan, thank you for a beautiful evening.
- Good night.
- Good night, Tom.
- Good night, Charles.
Glad you could make it.
- Good night, my dear.

- Good night, Uncle.

- I will, my dear.














- It's all set, Mr. Bolton.












- He needs peace.


- He needs a vacation.





















I'm ready for my next demonstration.





- Baker, I'm leaving for a while, and I'm gonna need these chemicals.


I can't give you these chemicals now, in the right amount... until you get back from vacation.
- But I need them with me.











I need to talk to him.

















I need your help.































































































































And make a small visit to the Seven Circles.












































































Dear Susan... forgive me for what I did.









So, in the villages of Brabant along Maas, still with a lot of respect and a little fantasies, people talk about the times when Dr. Van Taeke lived and worked in our district.




































Mr. Doctor, I've been waiting until the last one, but now it's time.





















I need a lot of water.



































I heard they're big lechers.














There's nothing left of the old village column.







































It's worse than me, isn't it?
- Much worse.
































































































It was a brand-new axe.































































































































And yet I saw him first with my hunting eye.




We wanted to tell him we're happy to have him back and we're proud of him.














His wife's very bad, but she's gonna be okay.
You need to drink this.





That's a nice name.































When I think about you and the kids, about little Tierke, about our lives here, I get really scared.



I just want to say that I'm happy with you.


I'm happy with you.





























You need to eat.











Dear Doctor. I've been coming to see you for a long time about the irreparable loss you've suffered, to express my sincere condolences on the passing away of the deeply esteemed Miss Van Taeke.



And I am particularly sorry, my dear van Taeke, that, with some authority among the villagers, we do not... use our position to cooperate more closely with each other.



Your loneliness in this big house...

































































That was the last drop.



















































Because we can reasonably claim that you, dear jubilar, are an example for practitioners from all over our country.



And if there comes a time of well-deserved rest, which, perhaps, is no longer far away after 25 years of faithful service, which undoubtedly took away the physical and mental strength of our dear jubilar, I hope that this rest will be an indignant dolce far niente for many years of your life.



















Beautiful speech.

























Thank you, Doctor, for the beautiful gun.










The lake is beautiful, but it's dangerous to dream near:


Not bad.



"My friend! The lake is beautiful."

You think I should ask Ibsen?























It's a beautiful sunny day, the band went on a trip.



















He's an old friend of mine.















- And there's an old legend.

Something about the old murder case and the underwater current in the lake.







- Writers need to earn a living.

















- Come see my last painting.


I need to know your opinion.





















The car looks a lot worse.



In the last few days, I've had the same anxiety.



























And spent the night in one of the old shacks.






- Just need to clean up a little.









Lillian took a small room, so you and Bugge can take a big one.




Do you know the old legend of murder and diving?
















- Worse.




But his tension was too high.



















































"I suddenly notice a large, fur-coated creature on the beach.


























































- What, honey?


















































We need men and equipment to search.
And I need to write a report.













And the last print clearly proves that he threw himself into the lake.


























































It's like a big experiment with secrets, secret forces between life and death.

The curtains that hide the last, great secret.













It's better to repeat the last paragraph...

You heard the worst part.



















I don't believe Bjorn wrote the last part.











What if someone faked a diary that would make it look like suicide and fit the old Grovick legend?















































































- Good night.
- Good night, Lillian.





















You need two two or four.



















I can't remember. There's one thing I need to do.



Heroes need to sleep.





- Lillian's a nice girl.
































Your old friend?












You know less, you sleep harder.






































We need light.






































When uninvited people play with such forces, it doesn't end well for them.




- Good night.
















































































- I'm glad you came.



















































































We need to grab him.


We need to find him.


















- Get in the fireplace, darling.












































































































I'm glad you came.






This is his last letter to me.




He said that there was nothing more beautiful for him than to serve.


































Very bad.














Hey, move over. Form is of great value.









































I'm sorry I couldn't send you anything for New Year's Eve. And thank you so much for taking care of my boy.


























If you'd been reading sutras for my late husband, he'd be very happy.















































There is nothing more beautiful on earth than the temple of Sukaku.















- I'm happy here!


I'd be so happy to burn with the temple of Sukaku!
Isn't he beautiful?
The first floor is called Kasuiden.







It's a very expensive guide.



















We need to hire more people.











I've been so busy lately that there's no way to study with you.


You don't have to thank me.


















































But I have to eat, so be patient, darling.

























But I don't need friends.







You've always been interested in learning first.














Seeing if there's a better temple than Sukaku.













You're so beautiful, I didn't look where I was jumping!



There's a new comrade coming tomorrow.









































I'm just happy to be near Sukaku by now.












Good night.












































She's beautiful and young, and old people like her.














































I don't need two flutes, so you can have one for me.

















































Very well, then put your print under the debt bill at 3,000 yen. Put your thumb on it.









As the last guest...












































You have to take tough measures to get him to pay. Or will you pay? I always thought the temple kept its word.






























Don't you need the money?






When I first saw the temple of Sukaku, it turned out to be even more beautiful than I imagined.

A big garden and a beautiful pond.
















He's been there since the beginning and he's always been so beautiful.










The girl from the big house?











You don't have anything else to teach me, so I don't need you anymore.











First time here?









You shouldn't have come here.
You seem so cute.










It'd be nice if you read sutras.




Is this really your first time?
































The hostess is so happy she gave you an heir. Hello, hello... - Are you at the phone? - I'm listening.














I don't need this.

































You ready to go?
















































































That's my last dollar.

























Harry, honey.


















































- Have a good trip.



















He seems like a nice guy, but he must be a vegetarian.




- Good night, Sergeant.
- Good night, Major.
Thank you very much.
































I have beautiful eyes.









I have a big New York steak.












































Don't worry, my dear.















Come to me, darling.





























































































































































- You said it was very important.



















































Nice to meet you.


























You dropped the first joy in the heart of a little boy.







But not as beautiful as his aunt, i.e. you.


You're beautiful.













It's an honor to meet you, Mr Wooley.
Thank you very much, Miss Kimi, and it was very nice to meet you,











Beautiful.
A handsome and smart boy.






































I'm so glad the trick finally worked.




















Mitzvah Watanabble, little...
Little...


























































It's extremely important to me.

A little boy.































- Thank you very much.


















































We're like a big destroyer.



























Beautiful.


























































I was very moved by your attitude towards the little boy.


























My first trick, my first illusion, my first achievement, is really the greatest trick of all time.





























What a pleasure it is to see faces that don't have to shave.

I'd be very pleased to meet your father.












Thank you very much, sir.










Yeah, Kimi, it's all very nice, but I have to get home soon.
























Gil Hodges, first base.
First base, Gil Hodges.































A very important pitch, Carly.






Simoli caught the ball, but dropped it, and the runner took the first base.




















And in the first half of the ninth inning, the field is occupied by team Tonichi.
































Goodbye, little friend.

















































































































Porter, have you seen a man with a big chest with the sign "Great Wooley"?





















God, I'm so glad.






























































We get a living, beautiful, 100% rabbit out of this hat.









As you can see, the lovely city we're in is Paris.













Lover and collector of beautiful things.





















Every time I see a little girl



-Thanks to Heaven's little girls,
To little girls who grow up from day to day.
Thank heaven for the little girls.

These little eyes are so helpless and attractive.

Thank heaven for the little girls.


What would little boys do without them?

To little girls.
It's a story about a little girl.






These little eyes are so helpless and so attractive.

Thank heaven for the little girls.


What would little boys do without them?

Thank heaven for the little girls!






















She's performing at the Operaetta Theatre in silly little roles.
- She seems happy.


In the first action, she was behind the tree.






And when I think of that cute old gentleman with his flour factories.




It's all the lessons you need.
When the time comes, you'll be ready.
Ready for what, Grandma?







Of course, the more, the more.
I'd be happy to show you both.




























Instead, I had tea with an old friend of mine, Madame Alvarez.






























It's even more beautiful than it used to be.



























































How are you feeling today, dear Mamita?
Great, Gaston.







What a beautiful piece of material.











But there's one upstairs if it's important.








And how beautiful her past was, according to her.











Especially you, dear Gaston.




When I think it was 1859, she left with her first sultan,
















Exotic little birds.


Bad manners at the table broke up more marriages than infidelity.











The oatmeal needs to be divided into two parts by a quick stabbing of the knife.




























Without knowledge of jewelry, my dear Gigi, the woman is missing.




It was beautiful.


















It's beautiful.

Only the most beautiful emeralds create this miracle of elusive blue.


- No, little one.



Who gave you these expensive jewelry?








With these teeth, I could conquer all of Paris and most of Europe.
















Love, my dear Gigi, it's a beautiful thing, like a work of art.








A stone from some unpleasant little king is love.






They make love at the earliest opportunity.

They spend every beautiful night on romantic relationships.



With all the beautiful sights of the city.












There must be more in life.






















If I had a little girl, she'd be better than you.



































What's wrong with being with me, can I know?






















Hello, darling.





Honey.




He's a great teacher.










What a beautiful place for Maxim!
Not only amusing and beautiful, but in something unique:



With his last monstrous mistress.



With a new glitter in his eyes.

Look so happy all the time.
There's Gaston Lyachall with his little girlfriend.



Dear Liana is well settled.













Bless God, her little heart,




































Riverton just called me that she and her fat acrobat arrived at a small hotel in Gonfler half an hour ago.




You're not the first.














Remember the dear little Madame Dumel and Marmaluc, the terrible Turk?













I'm in a great mood.




I'm glad I got rid of her.






But you're not gonna leave a woman with the last word.




He's an old companion.











































































































Your first suicide.









- It's ready, sir.



Completely restored, according to the last morning newspapers.













Let it be the first of many.


















































































Gaston, I'm dying to go for a ride in your beautiful car.



















































Or a new play for the piano,






























































Never been as happy as we were tonight.








Never been as happy as we were tonight.



I'm here on a very important case.

It's important to know how to ride.





I was preparing to fight, but the old wound prevented me.




What lucky thing brought you to Truville?








It's so nice of him to take little Gigi here and show her Truville.




Let's remember the last days we spent together, we were at the sea, weren't we?

























Especially the last night we spent together.






















Tonight, when we had our last date.



























What's so important that you can't say on the phone?
We need to discuss some serious things.









My dear sister, has it ever occurred to you that Gigi?























From now on, dear sister: work, work, work, lessons, lessons, lessons.


































Hold your first sip in your mouth for a moment and breathe in your nose, and then you'll smell it.




















Everything looks like it's on a beautiful postcard.


You have to be as rich as you to miss Monte Carlo.










What happened to your little Scottish dress?








It's a beautiful dress.








You ungrateful little shit.



You must understand that no one should turn inside out... even for an old friend like Gaston.


I figured your new dress wasn't that bad.


I'd be happy.














Something's changed lately.






































Seeing her in a dark little church marrying a plumber, who'd give her a name and a poor life with better intentions?






















Just a chicken who still needs a mother-in-law.













Sticky thumbs are all the fingers she has.











What's in your new little dress?







Little girl,


















You're not that funny, awkward little girl anymore.





























I need to discuss an important business proposal with you.

































None of this matters to her at all.
- Thank you very much.



















Take good care of you.
Beautifully.


Taking good care of me means I have to go with you and sleep in your bed.









Who beat your head with all those old stories?



























I'm so happy when I'm with you.



No one's gonna think anything wrong.


Isn't this a beautiful little life?
A beautiful little life, Gigi.





























And when they grow up, they'll destroy everything beautiful and decent.












A girl who lives in an apartment with mold and cracks on the walls, with old dirty furniture eaten by worms.





























































I'm glad I'm not young anymore.


I'm glad I'm not young anymore.





Oh, I'm so glad I'm not young anymore!

I'm glad I'm not young anymore.


I'm glad I'm not young anymore.








Oh, I'm so glad I'm not young anymore!













What did you say to the little villain?

It doesn't turn her into a little princess.













It's important to Gigi.












My dear Monsieur Lashall.

























I'll be happy to go,























What a lovely evening.



















Oh, he's beautiful!

Only the most beautiful emeralds create such a miracle of elusive blue.
Oh, Gaston, what a lovely taste you have.








My dear, dear, dear boy!













I'm so happy for you, I'm gonna tell Manuela tonight.
Good night.
Good night.


















To the little girls,
To little girls who grow up from day to day.

To the little girls,

These little eyes are so helpless and attractive.

Thank heaven for the little girls.

What would little boys do without them?

To little girls.

















At the end of the day, we got away, and what? Last time you drank water was two days ago!





























































Not ready.


















I found the stick first!

















No, you need to be careful.















Good night, and let us dream of the mountains of gold.




































































And by the way, even if you were the first to find this fortress,




















I'm sick as it is.
I'm sick of your face. Leave my face alone.
























































































































If you need anything else, say it now.






























































But she got her head cut off...

She was guarded by an old soldier and two more.









































































































They're going to the right side. If we join the procession...



































































































- And I'm ready to die without regrets.
































I found them first.


































































































Looks like he's getting worse.
















Shut up, Matsu told us about his last fight.
























































Come on, go first.
First-row tickets.
First row?
























Maybe it's acceptable in small theatres, but not here!















































You're a big boy.






You're a big boy, so stop crying.





























































































































My husband has a bad cold, and he's getting worse.


















He's still small.









But it's a big responsibility.





















I'm sure you cried when you were little.
No, I never cried even when I was a kid.



















Mine was very bad.




















Then I'll give you some new sandals.












Then I cried for the first time and for the last time.





























Ready!

Ready!







First prize.
It's the first time I've seen my son so happy.
This is the first time he's been so excited.
I'm so happy.
Perhaps this experience will enable him to develop new qualities.
Thank you very much.

But I'm glad you're happy.
Good night.










I was very happy when he won.


























































































































I'm not gonna let anything bad happen to him.




















I'm glad Kumamoto's around.






























But if you want to know my opinion, you need to be more tolerant and not give too much weight to it.


















He's a big boy now.
















































It's bad luck!






You're not old.










At least you don't even have to look after that pretty girl.

























































You're very beautiful today.



























It's incredible. It lived very poor, but it left a great deal of money for you and your son.










































































Let's see if he'll pass the first exam.








What have you been doing for the last two weeks?


You need me.












Your first contract.








Thank you very much.




























- It's all gonna take one minute.







Well, if he's not crazy, he's greedy, and it's just as bad.



















It's a shame to be locked up in a room on a beautiful day like this.







- Nice to meet you guys.

























My dad always told me that when a guy needs to do something important, it's best for him to sit down and plan.









































Because someone's willing to pay for it.












































































































It's too beautiful a day.



























- Need a little company?


























































- You've got a big career ahead of you.


































































You're cute.
A little too cute, if you know what I mean.
But I don't need any insurance today.






You could show me a vacuum cleaner like the old days.


















































































Three small days.






































I'm willing to lend it to Claude.
















































You want a little advice?










Of course, you don't need brains to do that.
All you need are nerves and guts!








I've been watching this house for five hours today, and it's bad.
Very, very bad.






But that's not the worst part.
















It's the first sign of intelligence.

- In addition to my first opinion.









First of all, clarify something for my stupid head.



































































We need a real anti-tank gun with live ammunition.




























- With your little bow and arrows.
You don't know me, but I saw your picture in the papers, and I thought if you and I had a little date.










































I need a woman.








Now, I need a woman here!













She says she needs a woman in her room.






























All I need is a second and a half enough time to pull the trigger.

- All set, George? - Sure.






Are you ready?
























- You're the new maid?














Where did you grow such a big conscience?






























" Billy Williams, a former jazz pianist known as Big Smiley's ex-girlfriend, who was under investigation in a profit tax fraud case, was shot early this morning in her home."






































Don't tell me your life, darling.





































Guess who's always ready for a drink.




























I saw it on the front page.















- It's important!
































Now go home like a good little girl.







Which means face-to-face, little girl.












- I won't forget, darling.












































































I need you.




























Any questions, I'd be happy to help.



- What do you need them for?










- Watermelon, big water pipe.
- How big?

Big enough for a man.

Thank you very much.
















































We are pleased to welcome you here.














Come in, my dear.
















First of all, she needs to learn discipline.
She needs to be treated more closely.











It's the new girl.

















Of course, one day the baby became different.







- Did you expect a new one?







































- Need some help?












































You don't have to work hard, but on the other hand, you don't have to do any squeezing.






Beautiful name.




It's really beautiful.




Very graceful, my dear.
Beautiful.













You don't have to get him off the bread of the kids.

Our new student, Superior.









We're gonna sing the first verse, "My hands are your tool."




Wherever you take me, I'll be happy.















Yvette is a beautiful name.





































This one needs to be wiped!

The last one turns off the light.
- I'll be here in 10 minutes to say good night.


- My dear Rocket!









But I'm afraid the next generation is different from the present generation to the worst.



















What we really need, my dear Rocket, is discipline, order and training.







- Good night, Raakov.
- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.
- Good night, Paapke.
- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.
- Good night, Dippek.
- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.

- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.
- Good night, Volsogen.
- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.

We need to get up.
Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.


Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.

- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.




"I'll be very happy here."




- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.

- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.
- Good night, Eggenhart.
- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.

- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.
- Good night, Preeskov.
- Good night, Fraulein von Bernburg.


Darling, sweet Via.









- That's so sweet of her.

- Is she as beautiful?
- No, just as cute as a teacher.



























- But you need to know!



- That's the last thing that bothers me.



















If you don't answer one more question, I'm gonna have to put a bad mark on you.




Girls come into this world to become women who can make men happy.












But we don't need exceptions!







You need to be a little more powerful, ladies, and no scentments!

I don't believe that children should be treated in the same way as grown-ups.

































In the bedroom when you say good night and disappear.
































Oh, if that's the case, darling saint, let the lips pray, imitating
No, no, my dear!
You have to talk to an expression.
Note: "Oh, if so, darling saint, let the lips pray, imitating."

Oh, if so, sweet saint, let the lips...






































And we need every word.































The country needs men of iron.



























The socks of our good old Fraulein von Rackett need stubbing.













Yeah, that's nice.
















- She's really old.








Need some help?
























We need to get the letter through!

This is the last time.














Good night.
Good night.
When I see you leaving on Sundays in your beautiful dress,


As I promised you, I tell you every night that I'm happy here.





- Good night, Manuela.
- Good night.

- Ready, finally?
- Yeah, good night.
We are not on this earth to be happy, but to fulfill our purpose.






Dear parents, what a terrible Sunday
The socks of our good old Fraulein von Rackett, who's in charge of chicken grilling here, need stubbing.











But no grief of that joy can outweigh what one minute only gives me when I see mine dearly.







What does one minute give me when I see mine?

























Oh, if so, darling saint, let the lips pray, imitating my hand; give her grace, that I may not lose my faith.






















Only a sweet girl would call me mine!

We have to hurry.







I'm so happy!





Ladies, Romeo first!
First man here!











I have to get back to my guests.





...in the Guard, my favorite is in the Guard, in the first shelf.







I am so happy that you have been able to obtain the approval of our esteemed mistress and her glittering guests.
But next time, calm down!

















- You're happy!
Very happy!


























Now I'm gonna show you how to play Romeo!













































- Or worse.

Yeah, sure, but don't underestimate me. Fraulein von Rackett





































Last rehearsal!




















Allow me to introduce you to our new English teacher.









I am here today to congratulate my dear Miss Superior.







- That's sweet.



Happy kids. Seeing is such a pleasure.











































It's a bad company for you.
- Manuela's not bad!








Like old Fritz in the lobby.

He's cute.
Fraulein v. Bernburg's business is bad.








Her compassion is so great.
























And don't complain, it could have been worse. You could've been expelled.






















Goodbye, dear Fraulein von Bernburg.












This is the first and last time you and I agree.


























































































Haven't you had a fever recently? Or was there no noise in the head?


















That's how we first met:




I'm ready to die now!

Something's been wrong with you lately, darling.








Go and light it there, darling.


















You guys are a new addition, aren't you?












And this guy looks like a big shot.
Yeah, big shot.







She's ready.

As you may have guessed, gentlemen, I'm in love, and the worst thing is, if you love me and if love is strong, it's when you can't imagine yourself without her.






You gentlemen, forgive me, we need to be alone.















































First wave, 06:00.








































Why do I need this Croft?
When we were in New Guinea, remember how many guys we lost?
























Something important here, huh?


























































You're gonna be in big trouble.


































It's more important to us.




By the way, this is my new assistant, Lieutenant Hirne.






















I'm gonna need some extra.




I don't need sympathy.
I've got tasks to do.









































But to win the war, you have to kill a certain number of enemies. And by killing the enemy, we have to lose our people.





























You know, at home on days like this, my old grandpa was picking up a wolf and choking.

















Of course, darling, but...





Of course it will, darling.
A man needs a wife to push him forward.



Sam, honey, why didn't you write anything?







































You might be wet, darling... but it's not cold!


I think we should step back a mile or two and try to delay the attack.






















































































































When will it be ready?

You've got to keep a good hold of it.




































He doesn't need a shot.
































































































































Do you think I care about this stinking island or General Cummings' new star?





































The sergeant just made a nice toast.




















I'm glad.
I'm glad.























































































My wife is a beautiful woman.














































I'm sure the soldiers will be happier under the command of another general.






















All I'm interested in is finishing this job and getting back to my old duties.






Lieutenant, you need to understand that a general is an ordinary man... no better than me or you.








On the other hand, the troops attacking on our side of the front will act with great enthusiasm.




















We need to get information on this area within four days.


I need to know the enemy's forces, positions, weapons, and routes from Botoy Bay.













Excellent, sir.

















Notice, Robert, we live in the Middle Ages of a new era.
























The only way to create the necessary atmosphere of reverential fear and submission is to use infinite, disproportionate power.















Perhaps getting back on the front line is what you need.



















Soldiers, we don't know each other, maybe you don't want to know me, but I've been appointed your new platoon commander, and there's nothing we can do about it.





If we needed a lieutenant here, you'd be promoted.









We just have to start the way and see what happens.






You've already been told that there are Japanese patrols there, so you don't have to go like a herd of sheep on the pasture.














I'd love to.






































I read a passage from Job's book, chapter 31, first verse.





















Okay, we need to be in position behind the Japanese defense line by nightfall.



We're gonna be in the open soon, and we're gonna have to respect the discipline of the patrol regime.


- Ready, sir.









Of course, we need to find out.




When the first group reaches those trees, the other group can pull up, too.
I'll lead the first group.





Group one.










Wilson's bad.
I need two to take him back.
We need all the people right now, Lieutenant.
























There's something we need to clear up right now.







Don't you think you should at least take a look around?













































































































































































He's got a bad knee.















Come on. A little water won't make him worse than it is now.



















Ridges and I will carry it to shore, even if it's the last thing we do.




























































































We have to move forward.





The big group is moving towards the coast.



I need a connection.
















































From my point of view, the best option is a second landing, and I need additional support.


I have first-hand information.




I believe, General, you need to return to command the sooner the better.























































































































We have a new widow in the village.





































Give me a sign that I'm glad!



Same old song.

For New Year's, I'm gonna be 70... and it's time to go to Narayama.


















I'll go to Narayama... with the arrival of the New Year.

I'm ready.
































Your new mother will be here soon.



We don't need a mother!







The new man is the new mouth.










As a neighbor and an old friend, I'll tell you what people say.











For tonight's Narayama Festival, I've cooked more.












Come into your new house!





















I'd love to.






New Year's come, I'll go to the Mountain.
















































The old hag on the puff!










Who needs great-grandchildren?





She's a little girl.













I'll go with New Year's Eve.




When the New Year comes.



































Damn old fool!




He came ready for battle in spite of his leg.


We have more adults, we need more.











And if you don't eat... it gets smaller?


I'm first in line, I'm supposed to be more!


I thought my harvest was small, but it turns out I got stolen.
































Dear Father, the day of your Rise is approaching.



















New Year's in four days, but I want to be quick.
Wait for the New Year.































You want to run away, you old bastard?


















The mother's bond with his son is stronger than the new painting.



Go to your new house!"


"With the arrival of the New Year, I will go to the Mountain."

































L'Opera Mouffe from the first chord, the first sound is food.













Dear Dead




We're replacing bad heads.






























































- This isn't the first!
- And not the last.










I'd be a bad communist, comrades, if I could comfort you like naive children.










That's what matters.











































































Ah. That's a lovely, beautiful name for Christina.



Two big cleans and two sodas.













It's because nobody's waiting, you don't have to stay.
















Reserved the 18th on the first floor.























































- The New World?



In fact, he lived in the center until the last day.

First in the old city, then downtown.





Ah, keep the 17th on the ground floor.




Ah, well, I've had less.







































































He was assigned to the voivodial division of the PDP, and you, Mr. Handyman, can you imagine what full power the First Secretary has?

It is an action that should have a high profile in terms of both political and propaganda.


There's a lot of loss of life.




I see, my dears, that this is a very pleasant place to rest.





- More like moving in the right direction.




Well, then we put our fate in your beautiful hands.


















I couldn't tell you anything new.












I texted you that the last time he was in that apartment was in October, right after the rebellion.













































- Let's go to the other room. It's quieter.



It's quieter than anything.


What's wrong with that?








































































































































That's very nice of you...
First floor, number 17.










Number 17, first floor.






























































Unfortunately... "Mr. Minister", dear Mr. Solomka.






























So why add to the difficulties?























































































































- Is that bad?





















We meet by chance, we're good together, what else do we need?













































You know, just thinking. I thought about something I shouldn't think about. But I don't think so anymore.







God, how can life be beautiful!







Look at that old tombstone.








It's beautiful.














































Yeah, Ibaseta, first days in Spain.


































































No, my darling,

























Excuse me, comrade Shukka, it's a big deal.








































Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It's the last force dance.


I have to go.













































































Were they happy in marriage?

We need to find Mr. Decker.


































Candy, my dear, why did you come up here?





Calm down, darling!











We need somewhere to stay.


























































I'm so sorry. That fell on you the first day of your vacation.





















"Dear Madge, I miss you so much, but it won't be long.



I miss you, I look forward to meeting you, my dear.







And please tell him that I need to meet him as soon as possible.





Of course, darling, but not now.












I have to go.


















We need to think about the future.










Thank you, dear Gina.


I need to see Candy.





















You don't have to come up with something that couldn't be.












I'll tell you, darling.












In the morning, darling.













In France, darling.









































Here's your mom, the lucky woman, killing herself.




Candy, you've got a lot of grief.




And they had to find an explanation for what they couldn't believe, so they said I was making it up.








He needs to breathe like you and me.
















































































A man needs to prove that he's him, and then he's got a stamp on his passport at the border, and you can know where he is.


















We don't need that.
We need his passport. We can see if he's ever been to France.















































Your mom must have been really bad alone without you and Paul.


Your mom was all alone in this big old house.






She bought a bunch of new things.






























She started to realize the first one.


























I'm glad.
It's important to me.





You seemed quite happy.
Yeah, we were happy.















Tomorrow's the last day before we leave, shall we go to the beach?
















Candy, it's okay, honey.

























































































































I sailed at the very last moment.



















Maybe if you apologize for your bad behavior.












She needs to be shown to the doctor as much as possible...


I think I need to leave.





There's a small hotel, right abroad with France, where I sometimes stop.






I need an inspector. Oh, hey.
I need an inspector.



No, I need an inspector.
















































































"My dear Paul and Candy, forgive me for what I did.








I know you'll take care of each other, and that's why I'm calm.
You've got a lot of happy years ahead of you.



Honey, drink this.










I had to lock her in the room.






















We just need to find where he's hiding and get him to the police.




























































You don't need any doctors.






I need to check one thing.



































I need to go out for a minute.


















- Norma, darling, how are you?





Counselor, I need to get out of here now.



He just told me that Grandma's been asleep for the last five days...





It's not the first time you've been caught...












I need a replacement.





Maybe I'll call you again when I have to make a will.







































'Cause it's a big deal.
























- The little one's so skinny.



















That's what we need.
































































This isn't my first time, so I'm gonna get nine months for 100,000.











Beautiful crèches.







You need someone who's clean for now.




























It's your first time.

































































































Are you happy now?







































I need to make a hole in the wall... "







































I have important news for him.































I'm ready.























We need to get our money back.

































In order for this to work out, we need to prepare thoroughly, figure it out in a scientific way.



















































































Here's this cypress from the sky, the countryside, the geese, the beautiful girl.



Well, I don't know, but I need a gift the best I can find.
















The camera's old, the lens's old, it's not Hollywood.



























Who needs this baby?


Who needs this bartender?








It's shaking 'cause the camera's old.
















































- I'm the last one, aren't I? - Hello, Mommy!












I need money for my coat.






Mario's a man now, and he needs a real coat.
















































Knock the little hole and insert the pipe.






















The matter is not clear with time. We need to study the movements in the building, the pawn shop hours, everything in science.













Everybody ready?
































The owners are two old maidens.








Got it, got it. If there's a beautiful girl, sooner or later Pepe will give us free passage.
























































Yeah, but at some point you have to start rooting.

It's so bad, Signorina, to be alone, defenseless...















That's very nice of you.













Come on, I need help shopping.









































- Did you call me old?
























Malocalibernay Barrett, in very bad condition.
















It doesn't matter.





No, let's be honest from day one.
Otherwise there'll be suspicion, and there's nothing worse for love.

























What do you want?













































What do you want?


- Please... bad news.
- It's bad, isn't it?




























All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right.









- What do you want?


Today's good news, and tomorrow's bad news...











The best always go first.








































But I told you, you don't have to bring him here.



























Look, if this goes well, buy me a new mattress.













































Thank God business has gotten better lately.





To make a hole in that wall with a jack, what do you have to do?







There's a lot of capital here, I need a receipt!



Good night.













I'm going to Spoleto to see my dear aunt.



You have to keep your eyes open and do things in a scientific way.
























Twenty-first? Didn't we say today?






























What do you want?



























We have to decide!








































I'm sorry, my dears, but this time you're gonna have to stay home.




















































I have to go to Milan... for business, you know.


































































































The first one's gone!












Wait, the first one went.









The first one went...
Who the hell is First?




Isn't this a good place?









What's wrong with her?


What's wrong with that?


































You started lying to me!






















- Everybody ready?






















I need to try the wall.


















What's wrong with that?


























































Yeah, this one's the last one.















I'm gonna buy a little house in four rooms, and I'm gonna set up a bank account for the baby so he can remember all the victims daddy went to for him.

I'll make a beautiful mistress!
























It takes us an hour and a half to make another hole. Then it's like a mimim for two hours with a circular saw.













Stealing is a serious profession, you need serious people, not people like you. You can only work with muscles.








































The less we see each other, the better.




















































It's a big family.

















- It's bad for us.

















Says you don't understand what he needs.


Tell him I'm married to an important government official who's gonna knock his teeth out and ruin that smile.



We have an important message for Mr Vargas."




















I'd love to.









































































You're a ridiculous, old-fashioned, old-fashioned, crooked "little Caesar"...























































Good night.











I forgot my old friends.









It attracts customers, even though it's old.

































The first one was young, he wasn't fooled by himself and...

































We need to rest.










































I'd be very happy if you took it.
I'm glad you're happy.




































It's safer and safer.

Every man is pleased to know that his wife is calmer in his homeland.





























Miradop is hard to find. He's away from the new highway.





















































Last one, number 7.















That they'll send a new...




























































































Come on, darling.



























































But isn't something more needed?
We'll find more.





















Hello, I need the number of the Mirador motel.




























Honey, bad news.






I'm here, my dear Miguel.

































Say, "We won't be happy about your money."









- That's great.


















Vargas is a big shot in the government.























































































Actually, he's a big shot.






























We need evidence.







































You're like a baby.















So, for our little deal.
























And make them bigger.
- Vargas says it's important?















- Well, if it's that important?













































Do you think they're ready?



















Dynamite is a bad murder weapon.
















It was the last killer to slip away from me.

































































































- That's all you need.
















































He was in the middle of a big case and then he disappeared.









































































































































































































































































































Look out, they're worse than scumbags.








































































































































































Anyway, tomorrow's a big day.





















































You're a big boy now.

It's a new model.
















Good old college days.



















































There he is, step one.









































It's just that I can't go up the cool stairs and be at high altitude in places like a bar on the roof of the Mark Hotel.
But this town is full of bars on the front floors.










We have a happy marriage.





























In recent weeks, more and more.























Scotty, I need a friend. Someone I can trust.


























I can't believe that such a nice girl...





That's a nice name, isn't it?
Foreign, but beautiful.




































You mean the good old Bohemian times in the good old San Francisco?


















I don't need a hat.







What does the old wooden house on the corner of Eddie and Goff have to do with Carlotta Valdes?













She came from some small town.




























- Thank you very much.






Thank you very much.















That's the one who called. Old college buddy, Elster.

- So, the beautiful and mad Carlotta rose from the dead, her spirit embedded in Elster's wife.





- Is she beautiful?



































The old mansion on Eddie Street?











I need a drink.








You probably need this.




























It's beautiful, especially at sunset.















What were you doing at the old Fort Point fortress?




It's beautiful, too, isn't it?













You didn't have to bring me here.







I'm glad you didn't take me home.





Beautiful, manly name.


Old friends call me John.

















































































































It's a cross-sectional cut of one of these old trees.










































































It's new, smooth, and it's waiting.























































Thank you, darling.

I went back to my first love, painting.











































The tower was dreaming again, and the bell, and the old Spanish village.




The village square, a meadow surrounded by trees, an old white Spanish church with a winged gallery.
Behind the trees there was a large gray wooden house with porch, shutters, balcony, and a small sadick, and near the stable and there were old crews.

And in the distance behind the meadow there was a squirrelly house and a beautiful pencil tree on the corner.
And the old wooden hotel that used to be in California?








Madeline, a hundred miles south of San Francisco, there's an old Spanish mission called San Juan Batista, and it's kept as it was a hundred years ago.
Think carefully, darling.














































































As you've heard, Mr. Elster was willing to put his wife in a clinic where her mental health would be taken care of by specialists.



















































I talked to a lady who practiced music therapy, and she said Mozart was what you needed. It's a broom that's gonna blow out the whole web.





















Doctor, how long does it take to get him out of this state?






























































































































Dear Scotty, you did find me.



I want your conscience to be calm.






















































Very nice.
Beautiful flower.












Look, we're gonna need the simplest gray suit ever.







And this one's beautiful, too.

They're all wrong.













I don't need anything.



Yeah, that's what it takes.







How long does it take to get in?

Will it be ready by tonight?





You really know what you need, sir.

Yeah, that's what it takes.




















These few days for me are the first happy days of a year.










Our first date was so nice.























- Yes, sir, we know what you need.



























I'll order a big juicy steak.








I'm almost ready.





All right, I'm ready.















I need to go back to the past.
Just once, last time.





- No, I need you.






We were standing there, and I kissed her the last time.
































































I bet you're a great swimmer.















































































































On the first day of spring, you will be my wife.







It's a beautiful child I'll give me an heir.























We don't need him. They're his.










































































- Anything worse?
- It's a lot worse than that.
Of course, because your pretty face is disfigured.






I need him alive.








But heaven is calm.












































- She doesn't need him now.


































































- How many people do you need?









- And why do you need you?
































This marriage needs the people.





And remember. We need her safe and sound.




























I'm a redbird, I'm a beautiful feather. - get her a nest.

















































- She's beautiful.
Yeah, well, all the bones are out. Like an old crow with no feathers.

















- Well, if it wasn't for the scars on his face, he'd be pretty cute.











Do you think I need a woman to let me touch her?
I want her to fight me big from the first time to the last.






















- We don't need you.











































































Nope. I'm more needed alive than dead. And you?










































I don't need that.
I need Morgan.







































But if a regular slave stole the queen... and killed the enemy that the country couldn't cope with, then the day will come when he will become an even worse enemy than an agnar.














































Nope. I need men to take the castle, and I'll walk you through the open sea.









Why am I more important to you? Am I a girl or a vendetta for an agnar?


























And now no one needs him.






Don't be afraid, Sire, the second bridge is stronger than the first.

















- Look at Eric for the last time.































We gotta wait, old buddy.











- What's new?








My dear counselor, they made him fly.






















































Don't worry, darling, let her.




Don't worry, darling.



























- My dear madam!


There's a girl, my dear madam.











































- She will, my dear madam.











And when it's done, she has to fix stockings, clothes, and so on.




I don't need any ladies.












































I got it from a little Bundy.
Who's little Bundy?









































So, what's new in Eger?
New?



- Oh, my dear boy!







































- I'm ready, Mr. Batori, goodbye!
- Goodbye, dear Anna!
















My dear Anna.



And little Ergie, my daughter.

But she's always been idle lately.



She needs someone.
We need a woman.


You're not too old, and you make good money.


























Here's the recipe, my dear.























What a beautiful woman!







































She can consume a lot of food.
Our Stephie is not lost in her little appetite.
My Anna eats less than a bird.



She doesn't even have to touch good food.













My dear Miklos, you are the Red in secret.

Old fox.
A round of applause, old Bolshevik.

I don't believe in equality, my dear doctor.







- Play something for us, darling.

This beautiful song...

























It's all new.





Well, my dear Anna?

























I need a very sharp knife.






It's expensive, but it's worth it.


A long time ago, there was a little boy.

With a golden bird in a nest that read the thoughts of a little boy.










You're beautiful.

I swear, you're so beautiful.
































The child of love is always so beautiful.



I'd be in big trouble.















I don't need any ladies.



You have to work here.





























You need some fresh air.




By the way, you can take the young master's luggage to his new apartment.





Good night.
Good night.

Look for a new maid because I'm getting married.

























Do you need a dowry?
And what will happen to us, my dear?

























































Nothing, my dear.
Well, goodbye, my little Bundy.


































Is the meat dish ready?










To my dearest aunt.




















They need a new apartment.



She needs a new servant.































They're beautiful people, aren't they?


























Let me go to the small room.





































Old handkerchiefs.
Old wiped men's shoes.


































- Goodbye. Honey, I'll see you again in the afternoon.
















I came back from hunting a day earlier than planned, and I was just happy to spend the day off with her.





- Sure, honey!











































Are you happy?









































































Which kept me from an open war-- a little white envelope in the mailbox.























When was the last time he went to Spain?













































- Bye, honey.




But that makes me almost happy. For they are, no doubt, collecting money.















It can happen if we don't, so to speak, be able... or because of the risks, uh... too big.


















You want a divorce?





























The owner's been agitated lately.





I need time for myself.






















You don't need me anymore?
























































Not a white collection, but those little scrubs...






But, you see, darling...
Honey? Sounds like a topic.





















I used to catch her from there in the early years.































Was it that expensive?













































We need 500,000 by tomorrow, or we're gone.















































































































































































You're not the first.


Ives is a little bird on a branch. Tender, chirping, uneasy. And no one knows where she's going to go.































It's very important!



Sweet thing.



The complaint isn't big, but what's the role?





He's not bad. He's just weak.

















Throw your brains out, sweetheart.



Life is messed up - bad with good.
































Nothing important?






I got caught up in this weird excitement... like the first days I met her.




A new future.










Looks like you're just happy to leave.









Aren't you happy for me?
Nice to meet you, darling! ..






I don't need you yet.















Honey, did you get my passport?
































She started to love me again, but differently. New prospects have opened up for us.





I should have confessed to that secret, the last obstacle to our relationship.




That night, I realized she was mine. That we were reunited for a new future.





Thank you, Monsieur Decri, and merry Christmas.







Merry Christmas.









She's very beautiful, even without jewelry.



















Good to see you.




Move it to New Year's!









Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! I'm sorry, darling..."




























His body is in the new wall of my husband's factory."





Read the last sentence.
















































































It's a big deal.



























- Nice car.


















































































We're glad to see you!

Well, of course, sweetheart, unless Mr. Mend has other plans.







- Now, honey.




It's nice of you to agree to stay.










Well, in the meantime, I'm drinking to the happy occasion I introduced you to.






- She's beautiful.


















































- What, honey?

Really, it's beautiful.







I'd be happy to read them in my show, but...
















Thank you for a lovely evening, but I can be late for the last bus...









Honey, you know I don't see well in the dark.





















Very nice.



















He's the one we need.



















Sorry, it was a great show.































She's beautiful, isn't she?

























Calm down, sweetheart. I shouldn't have scared you so much.














































Well, honey...





































And here's an important touch:



Last hits!

- You've got a lot of practice, I see!
























































He's trying to pretend he's indifferent, but he's actually happy.






























- Not bad.






Lang is ready!



































- Good night.













- Good night, Pierre.



































I haven't been as happy as this evening.
Good night.



























Congratulations! Nice work!





















Your medicine, sweetheart.


Good night, I'll leave you alone.











I don't need this, I'm falling asleep on the move.


Good night.
























All you have to do is sign.







Nope. We're gonna have to do some shopping.
You guys are big!


















Tell me, are there any new hits?


















Sweet old man, isn't he?
























This isn't the first time, okay?







































































Right, beautiful?
Yeah, they're beautiful.


































































































































Nothing new, unfortunately...










































































I know, honey.






























- Here, honey, take this...





- Okay, good night.


- It'll make me feel better.



Good night.



- Ready, you're locked.



Good night, Eva...











I want to be happy at last.


























Good night.












- I'm so happy to go with you!

































Good news, sweetheart.






- Looks like you're not happy.
- No, I'm glad, of course...
It's pretty obvious you're nervous, sweetheart.

























































































































































Anything new?



















Beautiful dress, huh? ..



I was so happy, and the dress was so good that...





































Always beautiful, smart, irresistible!







































































But my mom still needs help opening the nightstand.






















































The end of the first round!






































































Life is beautiful...



































- We need money!















They'll take the goods, and they don't need you anymore!
















































Big trouble always starts small.





































If you need to sell something, we can take you somewhere.




































































Soupley, I have to go to Rome.







First, we need to know what you're suggesting.


















We need to freshen up that stinky car a little bit!

Beautiful!



- They're beautiful, they're fragrant!


- You're spoiling me, darling!




















Look at these cows, how beautiful they are!
































What beautiful hair, thin hair, that's what I like!






What a beautiful day...





















- Good night!













You're the reason I didn't take my aunt on the last road.



























Do we all have to stick together?

















- Beautiful camera!














































Well, are you ready?













There's something left that we don't need.















Too big!






Thank you very much!



- We're ready.



























Come closer, darling!















Too bad... did you at least eat anything today?



To remember that poor little orphan!






- Are you ready to save six people?








- I need the money, today.


















































































Sweet, soft, gentle...


Nice kittens.








- Don't you need a driver?


I need to change. If the mistress comes, she's gonna scream like that!












































































In this suit, he went to the first communion, and that's where he's gonna get married, and that's where he's gonna be buried!







































































She's glad I'm like this.









Don't be afraid of me!
























And how beautiful you were... in your room... half-dressed.

First left turn.




































































































- You know you're beautiful?































































You think those who have money are happy?

















- Here you go, last one.


































































































































And at the right moment, he's leaving... ba! When they questioned you, what did you say?


























Almost an old friend. - Whose friend?


Good señor, the first person I recognize.

























Adone (a handsome young man)


Beautiful, nice? Because we might know him.










Don't worry about your future, I have a lot of acquaintances, you know... important, titled people.



Then be calm, it's easier, you'll see.









- And you'll be happy too! - Can I make you a coffee?


































Rome is too beautiful to be here.


























But I felt worse at home.
















It's the longest time due to infidelity.




I'll go first.





But where I am, you can be calm that they'll be there, too.
Do you know why I'm here for the last time? For hiding.



But you're worse than me. There's also complicity.











But you need to wake up?































































Why old isn't it obvious?





































































Well? You had to do all those secrets?




























You're leaving? No, he's beautiful! Stay there, we're looking at you.























- What do you want?

There was a beautiful black one, a black one. A nigger, a nigger.



I'm crazy. Yeah? Let's be crazy! We like big flies and let's seduce them!
Girls! We like black big flies that call themselves Pierrot.

























Although he did it when he needed it, because of bad friendship.







- Spy! How bad a spy does!







Now all you have to do is tell Adona that you know everything and that you won't.



Ooh! It's a big hit.










- Girls! We need to get some cigarettes for the cleaning lady... and she'll connect me and Winchenzina, and she'll be out tomorrow.

- The cleaning lady! - Cleaning...! What do you want?





I need someone to help me carry the cleaning plants by tomorrow's visit.







































What do you know about that? My Gino often in the first place... forced me to make a hook, unconsciously!






















- You're beautiful, elegant.
































All of them asked for money to enter his house... or worse, he used it to enter the owner's house and steal it.





























































And I'm small, and I'm small... - What if they notice?























- Are you crazy? Girl, you have to hold back. She can't go and I need Moby Dick here.


Big, handsome bug-- I'm going to Mass!


















- I'm gonna kill you! - You stay calm! - We're coming!




















































You're so bad, jealous!






























Lina Borsani, ready with a book!













































Beautiful cape. - Hmm...


























































Bad week!



















Bad, stomach.

I'm cold, and I'm sick, stomach!










Do you have to stand in line?



























- You have to laugh at life!

You have to laugh... or cry.







A good soul, in the meantime, told a friend that he wasn't the first, but he, he didn't want to go into the cause anymore.


































































"Dear Marietta"


"Dear Marietta really does call me Piero. You know me, but I don't know you.


























Try to be happy!

















I see. We need the lady Louise who went to school!








Mrs. Louise, we have to answer Pierrot.

But it's beautiful, ma'am. It's beautiful.























- New clothes, new clothes!






















Honey! Finally!
- Beautiful!
Do you see how beautiful she is?

















How? I'm also glad I saw you again.


On the contrary, when I had something important that called for a decision... you know what I did?













































Ooh! You're beautiful!
I've been told that, but you're even more beautiful.

















































But even more shocking is death, which, like a hurricane, comes suddenly without warning.












































The beautiful flowers she planted with her own hands became the flower of her cheek.







And they're leaving the old man's last shelter... aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa














Be careful. - I'm a big boy now.


























And on the ground, he grabbed us by the breasts of a big army chief and made us swear we wouldn't give up a military secret.






















No one deserves more love than the one who gave his life for others.
It's always hard to say the last word over a friend's coffin.








Colonel Edwards was appointed to fight the plates. He had to make the most important decision in his military career.































































Have a nice flight, darling.











Well, I need company while you're gone.

I love you so much, darling.
- Goodbye, sweetheart.
Lock all interior doors. Okay, honey...


































Sorry, Jeff, that was a bad joke.
















Good night.







































































I understand, Colonel, that you've always been ready to strike at flying plates.













































I admit, we're gonna have to take away from you, despite your objections, some of the weapons, such as the large missile launchers that you used to destroy several of our representatives.



This is our last...




This is the last message.





The last time was two years ago.












We are ready to make a report.


We tried to send the report by telecommunications, but bad atmospheric conditions made transmission impossible.










I need your ships somewhere else. Although you have your reasons,..



















Yeah, it's a beautiful copy.














The tension is so high..................................... you will immediately receive many new recruits from the cemetery.

























































I'd feel better if you were there.

















Yes. Here we are dealing with completely unusual phenomena, so we have to be prepared for anything.
















Another moment and you will be the first living earthlings to enter our ship.































They're good enough to put bullets in that flesh and blood whore, you and your big balls.







Easy, Mr Trent.




Fine, my friend, but do it very slowly.










Why is it so important for you to make contact with the Earth's governments?


Easy, kid.
It's you who's calmer.



Then the bomb, there's a bigger bomb behind it.




































































































































































































The pictures of the big people on the wall sprung up here.



Anyway, either I get my money from you tonight or I find a new tenant.


We are pleased to announce that we are ready to publish your story "The Man of the Earth" in the next issue of Sahityik.










- No, we're gonna need a middle-aged man.


Says you need a middle-aged man.



















But in the last three numbers, I dropped it all again.






























































New poems?






Who read your first story, and what did he say about it?




















He's got a great imagination, every little thing grabs him.















"How far will you take me, beautiful stranger?" How much further wilt that lead me, O Fair One?








" Answer, I beg, beautiful alien "Tell me, I pray thee, O stranger fair






















































































Big house, servants, beautiful rooms.





Aparna, are you ready to live in poverty?



























































But it's so expensive.















You know how important my book is to me, right?



























I'd like to know your secret about being married and yet happy with only 45 rupees a month.
What makes you think I'm happy?

































Dear Pulu, you must be aware of what happened.




































































The boy needs someone to raise him.

























I don't have time. I have to start a new job on Monday.






































Mr. Piri would now be amazed to learn that by the late 1950s, the early 1960s, the vast territory of the planet, covered with eternal ice, had become a vital artery that allows people to travel and trade around the world.












Dr. Kent has done a lot of work in designing and building your submarine.
































































Oh, my dear...














No, she's already a big girl!

- What are you doing? - She's actually got a beautiful body!





- Gentlemen, nice to meet you.






































- Of course, Rif, but I have another bad news for you.






Dave, be ready to sail as soon as Griff reports that the entire crew is on board.
























Commander Wendover made his first entry into the ship's log.






First class navigators:
































But the closer they came to the polar circle, the more tension inside it felt, and the slightest spark of discord could have grown into a fierce flame of violent hostility, where most of the crew thought about their future.



























































It symbolizes what I'm willing to do for her, what a hard job I'm willing to do for what I believe in.
I doubt you're willing to do anything but talk about what you're up against.






































However, in this ring, there's a big tear here, in the sea area of Queen Victoria, near the Land of Franz Joseph north of Murmansk and Finland.































- All right, you two rockers ready? - We're ready.























So our little green people are actually little green fishes.












Since then, they have never met their enemy, and there has been more information about the deaths of ships and the loss of human lives.







But we don't need questions, we need answers.








The North Pole is the positive pole of the largest magnet of all: the Earth itself.














































I'll take the first torpedo.


Be ready to shoot.




Torpedoes 1 and 2 are ready.
Exterior hatches are open. We're all set for the shooting.




First launch.......................................




The first one passed by like she was lost in the fog. How can that be?















































That's right." Explorer was created to work deep.


But you and I are not gonna get any worse from her than we are now.

































Everything is ready to open the locker, Captain.





























































I bet...

All right, get back to work, we need to finish this as soon as possible.





























































Great! You've drowned our last ship!






































There's one last desperate chance left.













- Ready?
- I think it's ready.













Cold and beautiful.







- I'll be all right.



You know, I think I forgot my little black book on this lousy plate...





















































































































What do I need the most?

























- What do you want?











She's beautiful, young!













































































































































- I need you!













I really do.







































































































































































It's nice to think bad about a man, and he's good.






















































































































































































I'm sorry, he really needs to go.





Let him be calm!

















































































































































































My desk isn't ready yet!
































We have to punish them!

We need to find their bosses.







































I'm so glad!























I need your help, your advice.


























It is no accident that a small village in Tibra is called upon to bring about the destiny of the world.














Worse, it's useless!













The loyalty of old friends.














Now a new fountain and a new Tiersa.
































I explained to them the need to refrain from violence.














This opens up a lot of opportunities for us.




But we need to act right now.






I'm willing to do anything for you, but not betray my people.









































- It's an honor.















If it's God's will, I'll be very happy.

















And for your quiet return to Oceania.





My dad used to bring me here when I was a kid.














You know, in the good old days of Solomon, if a gentleman liked a girl among her slaves, he could choose her and marry her.
The good old times of Solomon.


















The new viceroy.






















































You'll be happy to let them go, Mesalla!





I needed your help.


By sentencing an old friend, I'm gonna be a scary force.





























The soldiers first!




















The new commander is Quint Aria.



























- The ship is ready, Consul.


Recently, attacks by the Macedonian gallery on the Roman fleet have increased.















- I'm not ready to die.








































First! Stand by!































































Before you, my jumpers were the first to finish.








Turns out my powers are in the desert.






































Beautiful horses!
They're ready!

















- At the Grand Cirque in Rome.
Did you compete at the Grand Circus?









You're a Jew, and you were a painter in the Big Circus!























They're waiting for me to hug first.


















Good night, my treasure.



I've never seen more beautiful horses in my life.

















You've seen my horses. All they need to win is a worthy fighter.



























I'm ready for bed.
































My good old friend.







You don't have to feel sorry for me.







My old friend.





You always have to have another target.
Most of your condition is intact.























My father needed me.












































We need the Prince's permission.


































How happy I am!

























Now I'm calm.
































I'm ready to bet on my white horses against the crows of Tribun.


- I'll put it first!
- Me too! Wait, my dear protectors of the homeland.


Let's get a bigger one.


































I'm ready to bet...










Rigel, I hear you need to live nine lives.
And you, the toughest one, remember, you don't have to win the first round.
We need to win the last round.






Judah, you will defeat Mesalla in front of the new viceroy.





































If you want to live, you have to start surgery immediately.



I told you to wait.


































Is he happy?





















Happy Belshazar!









I've got some business to do with Rome.



















Where greatness is, be it the greatness of the state and power, the greatness of feeling or compassion, the mistakes are great too.

Rome is ready to accept your life and go to the great future.









When I go up the stairs, I will be the hand of the Emperor, ready to destroy any resistance.


































But today, that man on the mountain said to love his enemies, to do good to them, even if they do you evil.





I know whatever I'm doing from now on, it's gonna hurt you even more.


































If they see Jesus from Nazareth, they will understand that there is everlasting life, and there is no need to fear death if you have faith.
































We have to go back.






































































































He knows everything he needs.







































That would be our money. All the worse if the deal doesn't go down.





















































The first time you smoke, you think you're someone, but when I realized that, I quit smoking.


You think if you're sleeping with Yvette, you're doing something important?
I'm not making anything up. I'm just happy.
What's so important that you can't sleep with Flora?
I need to feel fit.















































- Yeah, that's the first one.




























The table is a big prison camp.
















Very nice, but I don't think that's a good idea.









Would you agree, monsieur, that this will serve you badly?
It's not really that bad.
































- You got everything you need?








How much do you need?



How much do you need?








- Yeah, have a good trip.





















- Aren't you glad to see me?




















































He knows I can be calm.











I'm gonna be lying in my legs. And when he wants to start over, I'll tell him, "Honey, let's get this straight!





















All set, let's not waste any time.





















And finally, the little streets right into the warehouse.



No, it's just my first big deal. I don't want it to fail.
































You're not aware of one small circumstance, Paul.
























You know I can't fight with him. I need him.






You didn't have to.




















- Don't leave, darling, but curfew?


































- "Dear Mom, Daddy, Pierret, first I'll say I'm okay, I've been standing there all the time."


"We took Grebuye with us, a local dog, "a big, smart and good creature."





- What happened, darling?




"The big, kind and smart creature... "hasn't let anything go, it's so quiet here..."








































In that case, he doesn't have to go home and everyone's happy. Isn't it?


























I was happy to help you.







So I caught you, little piggy, little bully.






















What's new?










Worse, my friend, the last semester is two.









































































- What? You can be calm in that, Monsieur Michaud.













- No, she'll be happy to meet you.















I wanted to say that Madame doesn't need anyone's help in the field of beauty.







But there's nothing wrong with that.


































- Only you, like all men, see bad things everywhere.














I've known you for less than ten minutes, and I'm holding my hand.

























I'm old enough, not handsome enough,



Just a little adventure, that's all.























That's the first inconvenience, my captain.
































Honey.












What did he want?



























And he used it to do very important things, Monsieur Michaud.


























































- Yes. - I need Monsieur Tiersellin.
































You dirty little bastard!





















- You'll see. I'll leave when I see fit!

Call me, I'm gonna need it!

Honey, what's going on here?





Monsieur Micho, these are very important documents concerning Antoine.

































Yeah, honey, I don't know who to return them to.






































The girl who intervened at the last moment.





































































There's nothing wrong with that. I'm cleaning on the seventh floor.
Monsieur Paul is very nice.













- Is he happy?
- Very happy.































A little hallway, slamming at a copper-coloured door. Which, in turn, opens up in a light and clean little room. Your room.





















But he's very nice.
It's good to see you. I never thought your mother would let you go.




Beautiful.






















I'm sorry, dear cousin, but I've been rude a lot.
















Good night.


It means good night.

- Good night.
- Good night.
"Dear Mother, I made a very good trip.










How can I be calm?






















The most beautiful toy in the arsenal.


















I'll show my dear cousin this little brothel.





























































Beautiful. They say you're in the bridge.





You shouldn't have kicked the big guy out of the worms.














Be brave, darling.






















Bad.



























In such matters, I'm always happy to do a favor.
Figaro is waking up in me, dear cousin.




















First edition?
















































Maybe, but it's a big world.
You have to be able to take it out.












"Dear Mommy, this student is convenient, there's no point in going to class.










Are we the first?


- Hello, darling.


















































Ramo, my old friend!



























What a joy, darling!


He wanted to take part in our little party.











It's such a small bottle.








It's a pleasure to meet you.




Paris, my dear!










My dear Augustine!







You were both very nice.






You've got a beautiful woman.

















































































You have the most beautiful voice in the world.


But Paul has a much prettier voice.
The most beautiful voice in the world.

























Beautiful?
It's very beautiful.




























"The first girl will twist you, my poor boy."




















I need a woman.













You need women and I need money.



















Come on, Charles. Let's go to the big car.









Where's the first speed?
























You're late for the first train, but you're risking a second train.








































My dear friend.


Dear Monsieur, I'm very confused.








All these beautiful things are broken...





I don't have his new address.



- Dear Monsieur, I'm sorry again.

































































Yeah, I need to be seen there sometimes. Otherwise...































































































When we were little, I was stealing his balloons. And he lectured me.














































Our little Florence.













Do you look like you're gonna make him happy?
















I just want to prove one little thing.

































































































- It's not a big deal.






If only it were the biggest disaster.























It's all set.










How beautiful life is!






Don't worry about your little Paul.


"I think of everything you've done for me, dear mother.




Look, man, class is great, but still...






















































Coffee's ready.




































































I'm not the first, and I'm afraid it's not the last time I pass my exams.























































There are things in life that only happen once. And they need to be celebrated in a special way.






Here you go, darling, cover yourself, or you'll catch a cold.
























I'm very happy.
























































Have you met a new love?




















































But... two weeks ago, you were willing to die for me.








- You need a car, don't you?

- The only way you need a car is if things don't work out well.































I've been practicing every Saturday for the last six months.


























































- Nice to meet you, I'm Freddie.


Look, your friend is already happy.




































- So the first girl who won't say no to you stays with you forever?
























My darling's on a plane right now, he could get into a disaster.
My sweetheart is my husband.
I always call him cute, and he calls me his wolf.




























Your sweetheart. You talk about him so excitingly.




I prefer old cars and a secure life.












But it wouldn't be bad...







We need to go to Grenel.

Excuse me. Ever since we were married, it's my first Sunday without him.

You're so beautiful when you smile.
















We need a comfortable and comfortable place.





- He doesn't seem nice.






















It's nice here.










































There was a guy who gave me a little gift.













































































































I'm glad I met you, 'cause we were ready to put our hands down.






- All I need are temporary lovers.
- Does that really make you happy?











And you don't have to go to Shanghai at all.

























































































That's not what I'm gonna do. She's cute.














































- Old American trick.




































- They're cute.










I'm sorry, honey, but everyone's for themselves.




So, darling, you're lonely?




























- Don't.

















































My mom's just gonna be happy to get rid of me.









































She's not happy.


I love a lot of little French.




- She's beautiful, but very sharp.































































Is that what you say when you first meet all the girls?



































I'm glad I met you alone.



I've always been looking for a handsome, intelligent, charming guy.
All I need right now is a guy's honesty.




What do I have to do?
























Good night.















































You're not that bad.














You're worse than I thought at first.











- Pick the most beautiful one.




























We need a new game.























- How nice of you to come.


- We don't need her.
















































































- It's a small salary.







- Everything you've done for me is very nice.










So, before we meet Professor Etienne Alexi, I have the pleasure to introduce you to a very important, I would say, sensational news.



















My dear Etienne, it's a pleasure to meet you.

























I'm sorry to interrupt this exciting dialogue, but our colleagues need an air to broadcast sports events, namely, the American struggle.






















The time of the Dilijans must have been so beautiful...
Ah, good old times!






The new world needs a new generation.













It's the most beautiful time in the south.






Alice, you're big enough to sniff yourself.














And now I need a drink to calm down.





















I told you I had to process the vineyard!


























- What? - I need money for the bus.
Take it in the old soup, under the fireplace.

Because I need to scream, or I can't hear myself.





It's an old story.
Old story, old story...








































Yeah... but it takes a man.

- I don't need it.


- You don't need a man with that thing?






























And I'm not ready for that yet.


































Monsieur just got a guinea pig from New Guinea.



However, you have a great opportunity.
Looks like this young man is very nice.










The production of children is equally important and should be entrusted to specialists.

Could you repeat the last sentence for me?












Fine, my dear Russo.

Tell me, my dear Russo.

I am a simple man, my dear Russo.

Yes, especially since the Countess is very beautiful.





My dear Laurent.
Dear Madeleine.

Beautiful.






















They were one of the first to put your theory into practice.


Beautiful publicity material. The press will be here any minute.



It's the most beautiful day of my life.
































It's an honor to see us as a genius chemist.





























Hello, Rudolph. Monsieur and Madame Poanian are among the first...



















































Oh, you're the new maid.


I'm sorry, but I need to find my fiancée.
























Nice to meet you, Madame.










I need to ask Professor Alexi something.





















It seems to me that some precautions need to be considered first.














































I'm glad my ammo doesn't have to see this... debauchery.










































- You're beautiful.



That's very nice.










It doesn't matter.




I need to think about unexpected problems.




























Of course she will, provided I find the right words.




































I'm so happy.




It's a pleasure.




Leave it, it's not ready yet.

It's not a big bird, it doesn't do anything anyway.

You, dear Titin, have the same brain as a caveman.





- You're worse than me...







You're worse than me.


























Of course, just for the last time...


















No, but it doesn't matter. Go on.
Newer, more complex organisms have gradually emerged.









- It must be so beautiful. - Yes.





But perhaps, without knowing anything, they died happy without thinking of their species disappearing, enjoying the sun's warm and tender green grass.






- Thank you, my dear Titin.


















Do you think we'll be happier there than under the shadow of our olive trees?





The more it stinks, the happier they are.






After all, there have been worse times since St. Peter's.
































- Big love.


Because when Nenett hears beautiful words...

















He's happy here.














It's not about beautiful words, it's about rationality.








It takes industrial scale to organize this.



















Dear cousin, it's good to see you again.








Of course, feelings are wonderful, but she needs to make her life work.









So when this is all over, I have to have some fun to blow my head off.










- We have to do everything we can to avoid a scandal.




- I don't want your money.





















- Are you ill, Monsieur Alexi?















I assure you, my dear Russo, this jacket is too narrow for me.



The Countess is ready?
Always ready.












- I need to tell you something.





Marie-Charlotte, I think we'll both be happy.



It's very nice of you to come and say hello to me.





- Do you need money?
















I need to warn you that I'm out.







By the way, dear Nenett, what's your full name?

Beautiful name for the president's wife.






























































The first day, the second day, the third day.






































For my part, I fought with all my strength, every day, against terror, no longer understand why you have to remember.













New vegetation comes from the sand.


























You have such beautiful skin.







































For example, the ability to watch, to observe, needs to be taught.






You're a very beautiful woman.














I'm glad you finally noticed that I speak French well.
















Beautiful French word:





Am I the first Japanese in your life?



In Paris, was it a beautiful summer day? Right?

























Because it was your last day in Hiroshima.



















































































































Beautiful.
I'm a man who's happy with his wife.

I'm a woman who's happy with her husband.






















































In France, Louara is considered a very beautiful river, primarily because of her light.





The cellar is small.
Very small.












































Did you tell me there's a cellar in Nevers that's old and very raw?











































Someone says it needs to go through town.











Before, when we loved each other, when we were very happy.

I remember what I've seen before. Before, when we loved each other, when we were very happy.































It was my first love!















Hiroshima is on the front pages of all newspapers.




























Sometimes you have to avoid thinking about the difficulties that life presents.






















































































Njevre's beautiful poppies, I betray you to oblivion.


One day without his eyes, and she dies, a little girl from Never, a little windshield from Never.

A stupid little girl who died of love in Nevers.
Little spicy girl from Never, tonight I'm forgetting you.




































Look carefully... because this is the last time we see Sir John.





Because a new era has come with victory.
And with a new era, a new spirit.


♪ So count your money, fill your pockets ♪


♪ That's what I want to tell you today ♪ ( In shot: )
♪ Yeah, workers and bosses, sweet couple ♪ Bombs?











♪ The bravest new world ever existed ♪

♪ Be the first to go, don't let yourself go ♪ ( In shot:











































I'm supposed to be at the university's alumni commission tonight.
I still don't understand why a man raised as a gentleman thinks it's necessary to choose industriality.


















































And we need people like you with higher education to let us, after we've trained you, keep our place among the countries that produce the largest amount of detergent in the world.














I'm glad you asked him.




That's a hell of a profit.














♪ That's why we're saying, of course, "Yum-Yum." (in shot : "Nam-Yam's new romance cake" ) "Her nym-Yum-uh, of course )











Thank you very much, sir.





Thank you very much.


It's our new summer recipe.




Here, look, this is the first stage of the mixing process.










All right, follow me.












Please, honey!















Ready to add cherries and nuts on top.









Look, the biggest thing I can do right now is apologize.






Dear Windrash, your meeting yesterday with Mr. Bartlett, CEO of the British Corset Company, brackets,
The foundation of the Nation, close the brackets, Limited, was the eleventh given to you in the last ten days.








- Hello, my dear.




We were comrades in arms during the last war.












You see, Stanley, I happen to be the director of a very important engineering firm.





Your uncle's company is about to get a big gun order.

Thank you very much, Coxie.

Well, I guess you're just gonna lead, darling.

The first thing to do is go to the local labor exchange.














The politicians need your voice, so they're trying their best to make you happy.

Oh, no, no, no, no, no, dear lady!



Your Uncle Bertie makes his own ulcer, trying to make people work more efficiently, and he tells them it means a big salary.
















The gates opened in a whole new era, and people were moving through them.


The British worker responded with a new sense of dignity in his work, in addition to his centuries-old traditions of brotherhood and partnership.



Nice little two-shilling bet for today. (supplier bet - rate of 2 events at the same time )









This new man is here, Knowles.


































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, My dear, the only natural ability of these bastards is the ability to get away from work.









The last one that measured our productivity was trying to pretend to be a worker.












Less than half of that, actually, don't you know?















































































My dear, we live in a welfare state.













He's very busy, but I know he's always happy to see you.











In that case, perhaps, Major Hitchcock, you can explain the presence of this new man.
A new man?


































Of course, go on, my dear.













Fine, in this case, everything is absolutely fine, and this guy can stay.











Our chairman, as you know, is not well, but he asked me to tell you how much Missiles appreciates that you have concluded this important arms contract with us.









My dear sir, no.









Beautiful!

























We have to keep an eye on them.









Yeah, I was at a summer school in Ballyol College in 1946. ...............................


















Thank you very much, Mr. Kite, but, uh...

















Yeah, it's fine, it's fine.







Stop being such an old whiner!


I just don't like seeing our class act like Gadarin pigs. ( New Testament. Meaning:......................................................................




♪ she's my girl, man ♪ Step aside, I'm fine.

♪ I'm fine, Jack, I'm fine ♪





















- Uh... no, I won't, thank you very much.


























- Goodbye, sweetheart.



Thank you very much.





















Ah, no, dear friend, I'm not kidding.







That's where my little company gets into the game.






The new worker we just took...













You're the only one who's so handsome and white that I can think of, all of a sudden it's upside down.


I'm so glad you're staying with us.


















Buddy, you need to be enlightened.
















Fine, Henry. Leave him there.































We're gonna have to organize this as usual.










If you want to cooperate, talk to our new man, Windrash.



Beautiful.




























(Phoneplay: "intercourse" also - sexual intercourse)...fragileness in any form, requires more efficiency and honesty in the performance of each and every one of their jobs, for fair pay, I'll add it so as not to be monotonous.
It means that we must be prepared to work with our neighbors, whether they share our views, whether they belong to another union, or to another race.





Thank you, my dear.








































































- agreed to a new timeline.



- Why? Waters knows as well as I do that you have to really chronograph a person when you're doing a job.





- A new man, sir.



His name has become vindictive to whiners and panickers ) but most of these numbers are just science fiction, sir.







All right, take this and get to work.


























Now, this is the first time that they have been presented to the working committee, and all their contents clearly represent, quite definitely... an unequivocal violation of the existing agreements that exist between the administration and the trade unions.


How could they take new time measurements and none of us knew about it?


















I think you should know, brothers, that this so-called "another" person was, in fact, a new worker in productivity measurement.











Well, at this speed, it only takes half of the current number of drivers.

For you, buddy, it might be okay, and we need money.
























































Then I may have to cancel the new rules, and the strike will stop.

I need time to get permission to hand the contract over to my friend Mr. Cox.
How much time do you need, Mr. Mohammed?







- My dear boy!





























( Apparently an alluvial to Pontius Pilate's words in the New Testament: "I wash my hands" )































I think I know what you're all here about, so if you take your seats, I'm ready to go deeper into the actual state of affairs.






















































- I need the money.


























- Thank you very much.




Why do you have to take pictures of me?















































Anything new, Mr. Kite?
















































I'm very glad to hear that.











That's exactly what I need.



















































( New Testament: "The coffin of the coffin is a hypocrite, nothing is handsome from the outside, but it's filthy inside.)




















- Yes, darling, that's right.


There he is, darling.







- Yes, darling, of course.











Don't cry, honey.
































I'm sympathetic to Missiles, who is experiencing current difficulties, but I'm naturally glad that this important export order will not be lost to the fatherland.


















But even at a time like this, the people remain calm.
Calm because he knows that he can be sure of his leadership. ( Westminster, Downing Street - the residence of the most important members of the British government )




The Congress of Professional Unions held a discussion, and on behalf of my colleagues, I can say that we are not prepared to formally support or condemn a strike.


But hidden behind official statements, there are other vital forces.















Look, all you have to do is go back to your old standards, and fire this... asshole Windrash.











What do you want?




























Well, for starters, suppose I could convince them to give up these new standards?






















Of course not, darling.









That's so sweet, Stanley!
That's really nice, Aunt.


It's been hours, darling.



And the children of Babylon were destroyed, and became indecent in the sight of debauchery. (Probably the distortion of the Old Testament - the prophet Isaiah (Yeshaig) and the New Testament)







Yeah, I get it to some extent, but why would you even want this guy here?


























Deterioration caused by an attempt to work under new standards.



































Thank you very much.




























But now it has to stop, otherwise it's gonna be bad.

















































































It's a hell of a way to build a bright future. (in original : building a new Jerusalem - a Bible allusive )






















































Under the circumstances, I am prepared to accept the explanation that your behavior is due, inter alia, to a mental imbalance.












- Yeah, you want him?







- I bet you're pretty good.

















♪ You hear the happy voices scream ♪


♪ Yeah, workers and bosses, sweet couple ♪



















































































To live a peaceful and balanced life.















Toshiko will be pleased.















Now no one wants him, so you can tear him up.























So you don't need me?

























































Do you still need me?



Thank you very much.





















Yeah, I really need to finish.











- Is she gonna be okay?





- We don't care about social status.




You need to open your own practice.
That would be great, but I need support.














































It's only gonna make her feel worse.




































Oh, darling...







































Alcohol makes us happy, doesn't it, Kimura?





I have to study.





Ready shots are made right in the cell.

















It's good to be useful.









- Maybe the tape's old.

























































- It'll take at least 10 days.








































I'd like to be as beautiful as you are.
You're prettier than me.







































Mom's sick again.















I'll be ready in a minute.




































I can't believe it's so bad.
You need to check your eyes as well as your kidneys and your heart.







Is it new?


You want the money?

I just need a little bit.















Dinner's ready, master.




























































You've been winning a poetic award for the last three months.







































He said it was important.






You're not wrong, but we don't need a masseuse.








































































I love you and I'm ready to take care of your mom.



























































Daddy's bad.












I need more light.




That's not good.

























I didn't mean to bother you, but I needed to see him.


















I'm glad to hear it.



















But I can't ask you for more.









































































I'm glad they're gone now.





Luckily, I was there for him at the last minute.

He must have died happy.












Is the salad ready yet?









It's gonna help us get into a new life.











A set of nice, sentimental words.















"Why doubt when we have a new life to live?"

























I know they were mean, but it's bad that I killed them.







It's a pleasure. It's quite natural.





























































I was given the first book to read by the Count. It was Matias Zandorf. And the first bike.






And next to him was a little boy with blue eyes staring at me.

















The bell's in the old place.















































A handsome man.







































Good night.
Good night, Megre.









Coffee's ready. Can I get you some?








She didn't die right away because of her first seizure.



























And you think the other little moron didn't do anything?















































































Between you and me, she was a beautiful woman.




















Your mother died this morning during the first Mass.











Here's what "The Little Moulin" publishes this morning:





False news appeared on Mass Day. And the letter said, "You're gonna die before the first Mass."















































I need to buy cream and shaving soap.




You're the last person to see Madame de Saint-Fiacre.









Notice, you can have a Christian's soul and nervous feet. You can jerk off old ladies, but is that recommended for a heart attack?





















If you're looking for Little Moulant, I only have yesterday's number.







Hello, "Little Moulin"?































Hello. My dear Master, I want to see you as soon as possible.
It's a very important case.




Thank you, dear Master.





"The little mullet" didn't come.


















There's been so many of them here lately.






















He needed money.





















You saw the last one. This one's probably the worst.


















































































































Good people were the last of the family of Saint Fiakrovs.
A crook, a drunk and an old prude who fucked a gigolo.














I bet they all know the article by heart.












































































But, of course, at the earliest opportunity, I'll give them back to you.

No, from St. Fiakrov's inheritance, my dear.








It's like everything, you need your own standard.


























The better or the worse?






























Let's not talk about it anymore.

I was perfectly calm. Of course, but you, like me, could use a little fun.




































- Wow. Okay, it was nice to meet you, but I'm having a rough day tomorrow.



































































Humiliated, calm.







































I'll buy you a new stallion, so big, all gold, in French and in Latin. With drawings and arias. And you're gonna give me the other one back.

































What did he want? I just wanted to find out what the financial situation was. Assets, shares, current account.












It's a good thing everything's okay. I'm just glad.
























When it's okay, there's nothing wrong with it, but still...













Mr. Commissioner, it's a pleasure to meet you. My client talked a lot about you.

Right to speak, your glass is empty, dear Master.













But what should I ask you about?







































I don't know what's wrong with you, darling, don't be so sulking.

We're taking care of our business, dear friend.



























No, my dear, it's a professional distortion.



































Who knew about her first seizure?





My dear Master, there is a charge against your client.








Exactly, my dear, my client had no motive.



The inheritance doesn't interfere with the sale, dear Master. But this time it's all yours.






First you become the secretary of an old lady, then, let's say, a trusted face, the closest person, and then you become the heir.
And the old lady is dying. Just tell me we killed her.











Three million old francs.





























































I'm interested in the last time.















When it comes to big money, the motive of the crime immediately arises.













I needed someone smarter, someone who could think of something like that.







I heard you come back at 2:30.

And since he was at the cafe the first time, he couldn't have known the paper was there. But then...


















As for your bastard son, it's gonna cost him more.










































I sent you a complaint, and the doctor says I don't need it all on my own?




But we still have to eat!






We all have our share to contribute.







And that's your last debt.
I'm going back to the hospital.




I was sent to the hospital on orders.




And a few sticks, old pots.
















I'm going to the hospital. I'm going to the hospital. I'm going to the hospital. I'm going to the hospital. I'm going to the hospital. I'm going to the hospital. I'm going to the hospital.
- new to the hospital?



























































She's got three new guys, and I'm turning you on.












You've got me as little as I am.







































With an old man ready to fight me more than ever.














































- I'm the top-of-the-line Amur, from Moura I'm us, platoon oizumi.












































Yeah, I'd love to share.





































































































We need to get to Palompon until I'm done with tobacco.



And it's worse, the more they need it.


- You're just a bad salesman!
With the army, I'd give my last ms for him.




























In the first place, I actually saw the enemy.






We need to get to the woods.









No need to apologize.

































































































































With the foot of the yarn, it got worse.























































I don't need to.

He said he didn't have to.







































































I'm glad you were me.






























Very bad.






































And it's amazing how that old bastard lasted so long without water.












I won't be happy until I'm done with him.
































I know what you need.






































Sorry, this woman's bad.

Thank you very much.

First stop, Plaza.

















Dinner at 21:00, 7:00.


































It's in a new house where the paint hasn't dried up yet and there's no phone!






















































So glad you're happy, Mr Townsend.




Do we need them?


















The guests are here, darling.
















It won't lead to a happy ending, Mr. Kaplan.


















I need a simple yes or no.





















Lieutenant, this needs to be examined. Drunk driving.



They tried to kill me in the big house.













I don't need a camera.
I need a cop.


I need to call someone.
























Mom, I have to go.










I'm fine, Mom, good night.


































You and your defendant should be ready for trial.

























Roger, darling, we were so worried.
























I knew I should've served lunch earlier.






He's the one who needs to ask questions.















Right here, darling.























- No, to the hotel, it's a big difference.




I'm asking because it doesn't look like they slept on the bed at all, which is why I want to know if I need to change my underwear?












You're gonna lose less!

In this case, we need to leave.





















































Still, we're glad we caught you.


































































In a big house, with a wobbly trail of trees planted?












Now, Mr. Kaplan, tell me, who are you and what do you want?






































We can't just sit here and wait for someone to kill him first.



No, my dear, we are not heartless.








Yeah, honey, I know.












Thank you very much, Mother.
















































































































I have a large compartment at my disposal.























If I'm here like a sardine, I need olive oil.





















































I'm a big girl.
Which also turns out to be the right place.







Do you have to?


We need to stop.










You sell people things they don't need, make women who don't know you fall in love with you.











Good night.
Good night.








Beautiful!



























In a small one, under your right hand.






























My face is big and my razor is small.




































Here's the receipt for the big suitcases.




- I've seen worse.
























































You put it in the right place.










You're my little assistant, aren't you?



Which means I won't let you go anywhere from now on, darling.









I'm not ready at what time?












It's nice and cozy.




- A big favor.








































When I was a little boy, I wouldn't let my mom undress me.
Now, you're a big boy.



Bad, sneaky, mean.



























Last warning.



Beautiful condition.






















Have you been buying anyone a drink lately?





















I'm sure you paid a lot for this little sculpture.

























That's the last thing you want.




Goodbye, darling.
Don't think it was bad.













































































Last bet was 1,200.

My money is as good as the others.












































































I'm getting too old for this job.



















































































Perhaps he's trying to give you one last warning, Mr. Kaplan.





























I need a girl.





































You don't have to.













I'm so happy!













That's nice.



Is it that bad?


What's wrong with men like me?





Goodbye, darling.

I have to go back to convince them that I've come a long way so no one can track me down.








It's much quieter now, thanks to you, my lovely mystifier.














I don't need to tell you how valuable it will be to us there.


I needed your help.



























- Oh, yeah, that's great.













































What's the latest?



- The biggest one.











Why didn't you tell her that the tummy of this little treasure was filled with microfilms?



















It's an old trick.




Hurry up, darling, we have to go!




This case has to be cut at a high altitude above the water.








To you, darling, and the nice moments we've had.




















































Bad.








Hands and hearts, darling.
What happened to the first two marriages?



























- The main tanks are ready to go, sir.


Ready to go, sir.






















Tea, darling.
I said, "Thai, honey."









No, darling.


If you had to replace someone who was sick or something, you wouldn't have called Admiral for that, would you?






It's a beautiful day, Peter.










It finally came to him that most of the oil in the world... came from the northern hemisphere.














It's a pretty important assignment at the present time.






























- Do you have any important business, Hosgood? - No, sir.






























Of course, if there's any reason I don't need to know...














I've been stuck on a ship lately.


























































But Moira's gonna have to spend the night at our place. Where are we gonna have a guest?
















When my mother was young and impressive, it was a very stylish name in bad novels.










A new model.
































He was so cute.










































































Julian and I are the first drunks in town.





So I don't open my big mouth where I don't have to.












Near New London, where our base is.







































I've always had a bad time with algebra.



























During the last winter in the northern hemisphere, the rain and snow could, so to speak, wash the air, causing the radioactive elements to fall on the ground faster than previously estimated.





Our recommendation is that the submarine should go as far north across the Pacific as possible to Point Barrow and perform the necessary radioactive measurements.















- Thank you very much.









A very nice man asked me to wait here.











I'm glad you came.


No, I'm really glad.
And I bet the crew doesn't mind you coming either.












Yeah, I've been drinking a little lately, it's not a big secret.


































- Thank you so much.












That damn thing happened the first time yesterday.










You know, there's an old story about an infinite number of monkeys who were put away for an infinite number of typewriters.


It's more than Jorgenson's theory.

















Maybe you'll have to stay here a little longer until... you're fully ready to sail.







They're talking about some new pills. What's that?




























































I'd say bad planning.










You're my last hope.


















Oh, that's sweet.





It's a very small one. I could mow the lawn on my own when you leave.



Besides, darling, I doubt if they're still in the shops.







Look, honey, we're going on a long trip.











You're gonna start feeling bad, then you're gonna get worse... and you're gonna get sick.











What if you get sick first?





Honey...






















I'm not gonna be in a big grudge if you forget all about me.
















We'd be happy to live and grow old together.































You should've owned me then.


























It's late, and there's something I need to do before I leave.








Right to drive. New course is 045.
(Grunts) Right of the wheel. New course 045, sir.



Looks like this is the place we need.

























- Is it that bad?









The longest, the most beautiful legs I've ever seen.














How do you tell a woman you love that she needs to kill herself and her child?






































New course: 160.

































































































You know, one of us is the last person to see San Francisco.
That's the last person alive, except for Swain. But we didn't see too much.


































What's new from San Diego, Sandstrom?







































- Isn't she beautiful?





I bet she's gonna get hers anyway.
And I'm willing to argue that even if she refuses to do anything, she'll still get her sugar.


























- Oh, honey, I'll never leave you again.







































Yeah, I can let you dictate to her what you need, but I tried to contact Brisbane myself half an hour ago.






It's not that important.
















Nice, quiet and quiet.







The doctor said he was bad.
























Someone had to be the first victim.










And that's one of the first symptoms.






























She's a little calmer now that the doctor's here.






In the course of the day, most of all, the next day.





















I'm sure she can handle it, but I'd like to help Mary if I have to.


















"It was beautiful, Dwight Lionel.














Do you remember our first meeting?















And I want you to know that I wouldn't be happy with anyone in the world but you.









Honey...
















It's not too beautiful...
No, it's very beautiful.
Thank you very much.





























I need to go get a check.

Beautiful girl.
























- Thank you very much.




























- First floor, second door to the right.










And today we need a witness.

























Are you happy now?



















- What else do you need?




You'll be as beautiful as a king!












I need 100 cruzeiros for the carnival.














- Yeah, it's really beautiful.





























But that doesn't mean I'm not happy to see you!































You're really beautiful!



























My cute little fatty...







































I'm so happy!

- I'm so happy for you!












It's beautiful!
































It's a very old guitar...







I'm gonna play a new song, I just made it up.




























Beautiful!








It's a very old story.

















I have to go.

















Look how happy she looks.




- Beautiful, isn't she?


















- I need a suit for her, okay?













A woman like that doesn't need costumes!








I want a nice suit for her.







































































































































It's beautiful.





Good night.
Good night.


Good night, Eurydice.








































Please be quiet so she wakes up happy.





























Come on, sweetheart.
You're not ready yet?




























- Happy...























New?


























































































































































































































































































If you don't need it, it's always interesting to have an excess body for doctors, for science...











It's so beautiful, Eurydice.


Thank you for this new day.














































Do you think Denmark is a beautiful country?



- A little souvenir.































It's been 15 years since he was here the last time.









Yeah, there's a big problem with these eggs.





This is your new classmate.











Denmark owned some of these islands, and we were the first to free slaves...











He kills the deer who had to be shot anyway.







At least you make me happy.







But dad, they started it.





The weather is too beautiful for math.





















































No, no, it's 23 now, and I need exactly 20.


- I just need to...






















He started it.















I have too little apartment and too many kids.





































- You little fox!

You little thief!























Maybe a beautiful forest, or a beautiful woman.
Maybe a little boy like you.





Go ask her what she needs.





I'm glad I'm living now, not back then, but imagine eating raw meat and oysters all day long.







- They're beautiful.




















- So you're glad you stayed with Anders?



This young gentleman won the biggest prize all night.

Have a good trip home!


So our little fox is all wet?

















I hear the rain in the jungle is much worse.










It's not good to be alone, whether you're young or old.

























I just found him, it's an old trap!

For old foxes.















































- Maybe you're here about the last payment of my fine. - Yes...
It must be hard to survive the fact that your case was covered up by the loss of your little partner.






I'm gonna catch this little bastard.



























Don't make too big a stitch.





























Then you get attached to a little boy and make him miserable.
- Good night, Judge.
- Good night, uh...






























- Good night, restless Mother Teresa.
- Good night, Daddy.















































































































































You mean you fooled that old fox?


I understand why you don't need anyone.
But maybe someone needs you?








- I need you here in the woods.


































It doesn't matter.


All she needs is you.








I need a job, whatever it is.



Okay, but one last time.

You deserve more than that, but you're gonna have to bear it, you're gonna have to settle for the small one, and you're gonna get paid for the new suit and the tie one day.














She's not new.







Don't worry, man only needs the first step, then he stops.








That's weird. Who pulled your tongue, why did you need it?










I was inspired by this first success.














































The face was calm.





What did he say about me? Anything bad?




I only want you to be happy.




































Is it beautiful?





















































































Beautiful watches got caught.




































It doesn't matter.

































































Okay, so it's got to be.
Who needs it?



































































I don't need anyone!































The latest news! Evening express!













Don't worry, I don't need them.















Yesterday was just a little note, and today there's a whole article.






































For the last time, please release the compartment!













I'm very happy about that.









































You're making things easier, my dear, you're making things easier...































































Well, we're having a nice road trip.

















































Sweet old lady, isn't she?













It was so beautiful!





Do you have to jump at the last minute?






































You see, I'm ready for anything.







For the last time, come here!































































The bed's ready, you can settle in.
Good night.





















Loneliness is a bad traveler in our lives, and often leads us to despair.
To a single prisoner, even a small cancer that accidentally crawled into a cell brings relief.















Then tell your ancient story about the little cancer that saved the brat.







Yeah, 83 years old. Apparently, it's his last pilgrimage to the holy places.





























Yeah... the last few hours.























We need a passenger list.












But tell me what's going on! What do you want from me?





















































I'm willing to believe you, but I have orders.









You saw the police enter the train at the last station.

















































































This is the first time I've seen a living killer!

Did you run first?





























New shoes, and she's lost.

All he cares about are his shoes.


































Good night.















Good night.
















I thought he was just a great man.






He needed my feelings to look like a mirror.







I'm alone now, and I'm happy.
I'm really happy.





























A long time ago, the King lived in a distant country... with his beautiful Queen.



And a great feast was declared... throughout the kingdom... so that everyone, from small to great... could celebrate the birth of a little princess.

So, on this great and joyful day, when the whole kingdom... was celebrating the long-awaited addition to the royal family... and good King Stephen and his queen hosted... their old friend.











Little Princess, my gift will be a gift of beauty.

Sweet Princess, my gift will be...






























Try, darling.

My dear princess... if this filthy witch trick succeeds... and you're stabbing... everything won't be lost... then... I give you hope then.

That's how the prophecy's gonna come true... and you're gonna sleep tight... until the first kiss of love wakes you up.



Have a cup of coffee, darling.










You know, honey, it's easy to say...













No, no, darling, princess.









Oh, honey.




She can't know everything, honey.








































Give it back, darling.




And here's the King and his King with a heavy heart... standing and watching... as their greatest value, their only child... disappears in the darkness of the night...























Oh, my fuzzy... you're my last hope.










- Yes. We need to add a bow.


- No, honey, it's pink.












- Yeah, and more.


- Yeah, we still need some berries.

- Just take your time, darling.


- Bye-bye, darling.














All the more reason to be careful.

- You don't have to do this, darling.


She always wanted to bake it, it's her last chance.





Come here, darling.











- We've decided it's gonna be pink.






- That's because you're on, honey.
















She'll be back soon, and we haven't got anything ready yet.

Beautiful!
























He's too beautiful to be real.








































Of course, darling.











Saved like the new ones!







- Clean the room, darling.




And I'll make a lovely dress worthy of a beautiful princess.





























That's so sweet!
This is the happiest day of my life!













That's not the point, darling.






I need to be right about that, princess.































- Now to the new house!
- A new house?
Kids need their own nest, right?



To the new house!










































You're... you're a brainless... arrogant, boastful old phony!




































































This way, darling.


Now, darling, if you sit here...
We'll give you... our last gift... the symbol of the king's power...

Well, darling...




Oh, I don't understand. Why would she marry an old prince?
It's not for us to decide, darling.























Stefan, I... I want to tell you something important.

















































We need to go down in the dungeon, welcome him.








She's beautiful, she's dazzlingly beautiful. The gold is pouring out her hair. Her lips are more red than the most red rose.



He will ride his noble horse... our brave knight... tall and sturdy... wake up his love... with his first kiss of love... to prove that there are no obstacles to true love in the world.



For the first time in 16 years...







































Fawn, what's the matter, darling?
















It's all set.








































































































You don't have to break your head to pay first.













































I spent four dollars on my hair, bought a new underwear, baked a huge pizza,

















Lucky for you, he's in need of smuggling right now.













She needs a saxophone and smuggling.












Everything's packed, we're ready to go to Miami, and now what?

























- Do you need a smuggler and a saxophone?
- You need tools, you don't.



- Then who do you want?


- They need until they're 25.



They need girls.

















































So you don't need a car.



We could live in Florida for three weeks, all ready.





- We need a car.









- You need gas?






















Bad, Charlie.



















































Going from the first road to Washington, D.C.,













































It's a pleasure.




























































Are you a new smuggler and saxophone?








































































I can't stand two things while I'm at work: one, drinking, and the other, men.







- Hortensia, good night.
- Good night.


Good night, Gloria.

Good night, Emily.












Good night, Sweetheart.
Good night, sweetie.















Good night, girls.
- Good night, Daphne.
- Good night, Josephine.
















That's the first one.









































You know, honey, that's the only way to travel.

















- Who needs a vermouth?






























































































There's only a couple of old socks left and an out-of-date toothpaste tube.

































The men in the glasses are softer, sweeter, and helpless.




















































I'm glad there's a lot of young blood.
























My last wife was an acrobatic dancer.











And watch the road.















Who do you want?





















- I assume you need a tip?


I'm glad you're playing in this band.









- I like big and sexy.



































































Careful, big wave.














































The big one?












































I'd remember a beautiful woman like you.









































Nice to meet you both.






- Hands off, I'll go first.




















Something tells me she's gonna walk through that door with her new clothes on.


























You know the old shell game?























































Tell him I'm gonna put up new records for Rudy Valley.















































It's five minutes past 1.

































And you're a little hotter.



- It doesn't matter how much.
- It matters who.














No matter how much, no matter who's taking you.
It looks so small from the shore, and near it looks like a cruiser or a fighter.



We're running a new oil pipeline.
















He's covering up in a little salon on Thursdays.



- What a beautiful fish.




How do you get that big fish into these little cans?


























































We went to the Grand Canyon that summer.

















I've been hired by the most beautiful French maids.
























It's very nice of you to want to help me, but it's no use.




























- Good night.


















- You think he's old to me?












We need her consent.
















Joe, this is my last chance to marry a millionaire.




















- You need a drop of bourbon.



Everything was murderingly beautiful.



- He needed help.

Let's talk about the beautiful.


























- Little Bonaparte's orders.


Little Bonaparte doesn't like iron.






Big, little, number three.
























































































Hello, my dear.
I'm glad to hear your voice.























































They're probably more expensive than gold.






Anchor raised, happy journey.

Goodbye, darling.
























He's the first decent man in my life.



















They say Little Bonaparte is very sorry about Charlie's Toothpick.


He got Charlie's last toothpick from the garage.


Little Bonaparte is sentimental.





We need to figure out something to make Little Bonaparte and Toothpick Charlie sing together again in the choir.







































Someone might say he's too big for his hetr.

























































































Where's the connection to the old tunnel?

















Not too big, 20 to 30,000 words, no more.











When you're ready, you can start digging. Take your time.








I'd love to see the old Grizzly.
Hurry up, old bear.

There's a lot of people here.












































































It's probably our last broadcast.





We don't know exactly which state was the first to use radioactive charges...






The last official event - the UN insisted on a general meeting of all countries.













You've lost weight lately.




You can't always be so happy.










































































I need you, Ralph Barton.














Now I'm ready for spring.























You worked hard to make it work. Maybe in other cities they need more time.


























It takes water, and it's not easy for me to carry it up here.













































I just needed to talk.














You're a very beautiful monument.














Cut it off a little bit.





































What else do you need?















I'm glad you're back.










Big celebrations are planned in New York on this occasion.

We are happy to inform our readers that we have no other important news.












You need more power.


















I'm an honorary guest, and I need the best table you've ever had!





The first number is selected by Ralph Barton himself. Ralf Barton sings to Ralph Barton's guitar accompaniment.









It's such a nice party.
























Good night, Ralph.























































































































































Near the launch site of a three-stage missile ready for the International Year of Geophysics.
A giant flame torch exploding, visible from a long distance, is the great success of the creators, but... there was no orbital entry.
The first two stages completed their task, but the third stage failed and the rocket fell into the water.


Beautiful girls climbed high above the ground, wanting to be named the most beautiful girls in the world.


I went through the archives. I've been trying to figure out what's been going on in the last few days.


















It's more than I need.





















That's sweet.








































There are always things to do.






























You don't have to ask.

I'm glad.
I'm glad you're happy.






























































Worse.



You look noble, and I look bad.







































































By then, probably the first quarter of this flood will have passed.

































We're here first, so let's at least try!

Since you're determined to board first, check his cargo list, that's the only thing I'm asking for.



















































I was the first officer.







































































You need to rest.



















The only thing you have to try, mister, is obey orders!

























That dynamite hit a pretty big hole in that part.
























- They're the people to talk to.













































































I think I speak for the entire crew... well, for those who are left behind if I say that we were very happy to hear that you didn't go down with the ship.



























You dirty little liar!























































Listen, John. We have a business to think about.
















































His last location would be a zone about 25 miles east.

His calculations, based on wind power, supposed drift and tide, indicate the last location of Mary Deer Plateau Minkers.


























































When do you need her?

No, I have some mechanism that needs to be prepared.













I was your father's first officer on Mary Deer.














I'm glad you did.






And the last time we saw each other was passing.

















On this last trip, did he write from Rangoon?













"It could have been worse, though.
"We're moored in the river next door to Torre-Annunzita and her captain is my old buddy.








- Is it important?




















- That's great!







I thought you were particularly fond of this place.






Since you hired such a big fun boat before the investigation, I'm gonna have to visit Lloyd's company, Mr. Petrie and The Consequences of Crashes, and the Coast Guard and the police, if you need them to stop you.






























You joined Mary Deer as the first officer in Aden on April 10, this year.









I was swimming with the worst.


























But right now, all you have to do is answer Mr. Nyland's questions.










































































Mostly it is.








































I think the last time you lost a ship was eight years ago.























You were happy to board even the third officer.






I suppose a calm man would be able to deal with such a situation philosophically.
Can you call yourself a calm man?


















It seems to me, Captain, that you are far from being a calm man but, on the contrary, you have been and remain a violent man.







You explained to her that you wanted this because of the insurers who allegedly had some questions about the shipment with Mary Deer.

















We need to search the third cargo bay of Mary Deer.




I'm glad we agree on something, Captain!

But in view of Captain Patch's extraordinary accusation, I would like to make sure that we all understand his position.















Your Honor, I wanted the entire cargo to be examined by an independent evaluator appointed by this court, and I would not want the owners to be the first to have access to the holds. That's why I didn't say anything.










































- Thank you again, Sir Wilfred!











Well, of course, my dear!















Your father was a good man, a fine captain.



































No, I had to wait for the investigation.
































































- Ready?












































How bad is it?




























































Where the red curtains are now being pulled down this summer, the tenant died... the apartment was empty for a whole month, but since a week, new tenants have moved in. But I've never seen them before...











I'm... I'm... I'm gonna... I'm gonna be ready.













When the lights are lit again in the fall, I feel calm again, and I can walk again in the evenings.





I feel safe and secure.










The pastry guy and I, we're the oldest tenants here. He had his own grief here too...














Yeah, that's where the new tenants moved, but I've seen them before.





































When I last got married, I wasn't old because we had a baby very soon...
And now I'm old, and I want peace...

























Let's go for a walk, and then we'll see how they light the first light.












Today he went out for the first time in the summer...






I've never heard... no words, no slamming doors at your place. Such a life isn't too peaceful for you?


















Fisher? It's probably a new tenant on the second floor.













Sweet Stark, come quickly, help me with the syrup...















You've got some bad tenants in the house...















Do you need my help?

















































Look at his collars! And the tie is tied in the latest fashion!






































I'm playing, but bad...






You shouldn't live long among old memories...
























- Yeah... and it's a lot quieter...


And then you separate yourself a little bit from everyone, like an old tooth... and fall out without hurting anyone or hurting anyone.
Here, Louise, for example... a beautiful and young girl, and I look at her with pleasure... like a work of art that I don't even want to have.

My brother and I live like two old gentlemen who don't come too close to each other... and we don't go into too much honesty.



























































And tell me frankly, in your memories... which of the two looks more expensive and closer to you-- Wife or child?











I guess the baby was more important to me than anything else.

You know how she first found out about human anger?
Since she saw a beautiful kid in the park... she went to meet him with open arms.
And the handsome child responded to her caress by biting her cheek and showing her tongue.







No, it's just the last two weeks.




I've been dreaming about my little Anna-Charlotte these last few days.























My piano... my palm trees... the big table...
















None of us believed for a moment in the strength of our relationship — we took off our masks from the first day and stopped hiding our antipathy.
For the first time, we both lived on alert... any minute now, every single one of us was ready to flee.






































I'm most afraid of his first look, he'll tell me if I've changed for the better or for the worse... if I'm old and ugly...









Are you ready, Louise?
































I'd love to!






It's the same... but there's still something new...
There's something new...








Do you need anything from me?































I don't need this paper, I'm not gonna get married.

Is it possible I'm too old?




- I couldn't say... that I was too old when I married you, then the birth of a child would have been ambiguous...

























But the worst part is... you cast a shadow on the very birth of your child... with your pointless chatter...


And the worst thing about this case is that this gossip got to the baby, and your daughter found out that her mother...










He's an old friend at home and his mother.












Maybe we can still fix this... bring back the old...
You want the old one back?




What a beautiful tablecloth you have.








I thought I was too old for me, not for her.

For the servants, she's very beautiful... I don't deny it...





















I'm old... too old for him!





My sweet little girl!

























Is she beautiful?




















Now they're adding salicyl acid, but these are all new tricks that disgust me...








All of a sudden, rush orders... important messages...










What's new?












It's probably not the first time she's upset him...



























Go downstairs and help her melt the little oven.




































With me she was sharp, rude, sloppy, silly... and with others she was sweet, sensitive, beautiful, educated!

























He wasn't as bad as we thought he was? Turns out he had his reasons, too?



















































First light!




































































Just because your dad was a big boss, you don't have to be.






































































It doesn't matter!

















One day, a little girl ate a banana, but all it did was make her tummy sick.














This place is beautiful.




















In a small alley.



















You'll do it, darling.


























So what's new about it?





















Yes, I am, sweetheart.













I don't need them.












Clyots, you need to eat to regain your strength.






















I don't need anyone, but he's asking.



































































He'll be ready to kill you.
There's only one thing in this world that matters is who dies first.



































































All the worse for you.

Thank you very much.










It's a new cure for cancer.



Too expensive?














Beautiful.













Good night.










































You don't need a doctor for that.



All you need is a bandage.




Aikawa, give him three big ones.































































































































Now I'm sorry we didn't make it public when the first three died.




No matter who it is, the speed at which they entered the market is more important.















I need an advance, I want to go to the movies.
Is your money that bad?








Beautiful.











I'm sure I can get him to go in the right direction.




Does it matter?






































I didn't know you had such a beautiful baby.




That's exactly what I need.


































































































Beautiful investment.





















I'm so happy.










































Little shit.








German, darling, but effective.













I'm glad we broke up.







I need him to help us.























It's an expensive medicine, so I think you can take it.












You can hardly sing, I need you.




- The old girl Takeo.

















But he's not that bad.




How can he make you happy?









He's not a bad person.


All I want for you is to be happy.







- I don't think he really needs me.






















My first feeling?










If it's a normal cure, there's got to be more than one pill.


You don't want this kid.











































































We need you to repel Asahina's attack.











































I need this.







I don't want him!



We haven't met since we were little kids.
This is the first time I've seen you so in love.




































It's very expensive.











He eats everything to the last crumb.








































- Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Bad.



























If you don't put him in other people's business, he'll be no worse than the shortest.




















































Miss girl, first lesson soon?






















- In that case, take my new code for four coins.

- With lovely pictures and big letters.

Give me a ticket in the front row!




























































- On a piece of old canvas.



Okay, so it's in the old charmer's pocket, and there's a secret...


















































































































































































- That's where it's supposed to be!



































































They need to open the door.



























- It's a pleasure to serve you.































































- Get away, you old broth!













- The door is at the old Carl's in the closet behind the painting.


















- Well, now beat up what's in the spirit, you old cutlet shit!





























































- I'm not an old fool, am I?



The atom is infinitely small.



On a distant planet, and subconsciously wishes to begin a new race that will be unknown to atomic energy and war.


The night on which the most important flight for the planet in history was organized.

The last man on our planet died from a nuclear disaster.
You will fly to other planets in search of men to make the most perfect of them the founders of a new race.

I will bring the most beautiful men to Venus, and the most perfect of them will be the fathers of the new generation of Venus.








We need to be patient with them, they're men deprived of their freedom.
We kidnapped them, don't think they're happy.




















I want a beautiful girl who only loves me.



Someone says I'm a bad guy. They swear to the court and the jury. They say I'm a liar and a con man, and I'm a coward. But know that's not true. My horse will tell you.














It was a big forest warehouse, two bandits jumped out behind me and bam!


The first bullet passed by and then hit me.













Well, little dinosaurs don't eat too much grass.
But dinosaurs are beautiful, boneless, with fine opera.



























I bet you don't even know how to get your gun!

I'll even let you get him out first.

We need to go together.










































Whoa, there are brave people with a big heart.





















Laureano, you must admit that you have good taste.








Grab the most beautiful one and take it to the ship.
We found him when the ship is ready, we'll catch him.













No, you're sleeping in the barn tonight because tomorrow I want cold milk and a lot, 'cause I haven't had it lately.

They'll be safe until the ship's ready for launch.


I need to talk to them.



There was an accident with the ship that took us to Venus, but soon we will be ready to continue our journey.

















On Venus, you will be free and happy.


You need to hurry up with the repairs.




You want to get to St. Ignacio Big or Little?




We need to find something while the circus shows go.




































He doesn't eat, he needs to get started.















Anyway, you want to tell me that where you're from, no one's getting married?
Honey, we don't understand you.







































And for that, you have to ask permission first?




















































Oh, baby, what beautiful light bulbs you have.


















You wouldn't understand, because you don't have feelings, but I should be happy to come home.
















Drinking human blood is the worst crime in the galaxy.























Yeah, I'm ready.



















Because I need help taking over this weak, beautiful planet.




































- Say good night. - Look!









Yeah, devil dogs, be happy, there's lots of bones for you!



I'd say his legs are too big for someone from around here.












No, it's too big to fly.














































































We need to end them or the devil will take us!









I admire you and I'm glad you're on your side.




We have more important things to do.

















Even though I'm worried about Ruberto because I know he's gonna die first after the city council.

You'd better go home, because in the last few days I've attracted monsters so much that wherever I go, they're everywhere.

All right, now go home, you're drunk.

Look how beautiful he is!























































I can take it off her, he'll be the first thing I'm gonna do.









Easy, sometimes there's love at first sight, and sometimes it takes time to build it, I'm slow in this case.























































































If I have to choose between my death and the death of the city... I hope no one dies, death is disgusting.





















Bad idea, wearing empty fangs.











Maybe you don't have to go.

But we still have to get them out of here!









Earthlings are good people and happy here.


It's the most beautiful thing in the galaxy and the whole universe.





















We suck out of a man exposed to radiation all the blood to the last drop.






















And this big open wound on the spot where the face is supposed to be is weird.




























It's been 10 days since we last saw Simona.

































I don't have to come up with anything.



That's what I had to do.














Please don't cry, darling.




















He needs to control everything, even on the road.
















I'm so happy to tell you the good news.


I'm so happy!













In less than 20 minutes.








Nice to meet you.








I need to think.
You need to see the room first.









Tomorrow will be too late, my dear.


This time... I'm gonna try to delete the big section.



















Now she's happy.







You don't have to.




I've done so much wrong to make this miracle happen.

































But it was the first time.






Now you have a beautiful face.







You can choose your own new name.
Isn't that beautiful?
New face, new man.
You're more beautiful than ever.









He'll be happy.







Sorry, honey.




See you tomorrow, darling.

I'll come say good night.









Later, the touch detects little subcutaneous fat.




Any old dog can do anything.

















Calm down, darling.






























A beautiful woman in a pearl necklace that was seen with another girl.



















You're just gonna need to do us a little favor.




You're gonna need to be blonde.





































































- Do I have to give this to you?






















































Well, good night, Professor.
























Beautiful places.



If you don't like the big city...







It's a beautiful sun.





















How's it going, darling?














You have to be a whore for that.


































I wanted to see if I'd be happy to see you again.

































No, I was angry because I was sick.


Yeah, I need to meet a man who owes me money.



There are more beautiful girls than me.




They were beautiful, but it was exhausting.




















































Beautiful?

























Has he been in here lately?
Has anyone been to see Monsieur Tolmachev lately?










I have to call first.


I just need one second.


















































It doesn't matter...












I love a girl with a beautiful neck, beautiful breasts, beautiful voice... beautiful wrists... beautiful forehead... beautiful knees...







































































It's very important to me.
No, it's important to come to Rome with me.


I bet you do.

He's very nice.





























You sound like a little girl!


































- That's right, darling.













Beautiful car!












I want to sleep with you again because you're beautiful.
No, I'm not pretty.



















Do you think she's prettier than me?





















































































I hear it's beautiful.
When I was a kid, my dad always said,



I bet it's not that great.










No, Swedish girls are very beautiful.

There's gonna be a couple of beautiful ones, just like Paris and London, but nothing more.
Cities where girls are beautiful aren't amazingly beautiful, but girls like you, charming, girls I'd appreciate for 15 out of 20, because there's something special about them... it's not Paris or Rio, it's Lausanne and Geneva.



















Sweetheart, tender Patricia.
























The last sentence is fine.


Fingers are important in a woman.












Your smile... when you look in your profile, your smile is the most beautiful thing in you.













We look like happy elephants hiding.











No, I need to buy a dress.









































I told you the worst drawback was cowardice.



Dior doesn't have to buy dresses, he has to call.








































If you see a beautiful girl with a rich guy, you can be sure she's a good girl and he's a killer.
















He was in trouble at the last minute.


























































Watch the road!
































The picture is old.


































No drama so dangerous and beautiful, nothing will make our love pathetic.























- That's too bad.




Look, uh, isn't Concorde beautiful?

































































My friend from Montmartre has a big apartment.




















































Today is your lucky day!



































They say there's no such thing as happy love.


























I need to park.




















































Go there and try to imagine what it was 40,000 years ago when such monsters wandered where expensive cars now drive.













Hello, darling, what happened?





















Bye, darling.

Because your dad's a beautiful man, but a little forgetful.






There's nothing wrong with ghost stories, Daddy.










- So you wish for something bad.

If you can't tell us. That means it's something bad.




















Not lately.










It's a cumbersome old mansion that was built 50 years ago.


























A mysterious uncle who rose from the grave, an old mansion full of ghosts.


And this is his last will and will.

It would be nice if there were shares or bonds.


































































Hi, honey.
Here are the last papers signed and certified.


I'd love to.



















We said we couldn't pay her and we didn't need her, but she asked me to stay until she found a place.



























- I'll show you what to do.























































Listen, honey.


We're ordinary people, we don't have such abilities, and we don't need them.















I'm gonna go say good night to the kids.














Yeah, honey?


Now it's time for all the nice girls to go to bed.
Good night.



































He found the first ghost in the Irish castle.




That's the last one. Twelfth............................................











I'm very busy, darling.




- I have to go home, Van.




























































But he hasn't trusted anyone in the last few days.






















The last thing he wrote was a line about a crime committed against him.













Who saw him last?



















Ben, it was a beautiful evening.
















Good night.
- Good night.

Honey, what happened?












































































What's the big deal?
















































No, I'm glad you came.




























Buck is very happy.


Big surprise for me.
















That's the last thing Dr. Zorba wrote.












You need to find this Elaine Zacharides.
You don't have to look for her.


















I'm so glad we're leaving.

























- Need any help?



















Please, honey.






















Ready?










It's a very big secret.










































Good night.


Good night, Buck.








We need to know more.
























Where are we gonna buy a new house?
A new house?




- Breakfast's ready.































Personally, I often stay at work for an extra hour - another. Especially if it's bad weather.





























- Good night, Mrs. Lieberman.
- Good night, Mr Baxter.












I'm happy in my marriage.









Good night.

















- Oh, and get those little cheese crackers.







- Okay. Good night, Doc.














Good night, Doc.


We are proud to present the classic filmmaker Gret Garbo, John Berrymore Joan Crawford, Wallace Berry and Lionel Berrymore in The Big Hotel.


And now, Big Hotel, in the roles of Greta Garbo, John Berrymore Joan Crawford, Wallace Berry and Lionel Berrymore.





I'm glad, but... who is it?















I'll put you in the top ten.



But it's only 11:00. And I just need a room for 45 minutes.



- Oh, that's so sweet, so sweet.









No problem, Mr. Drobich! I'm always happy to see you!



























































- You didn't have to get out of bed today.
- I didn't have to get up last night.






















































I have to go to bed right after work.





























You'd do me a big favor.














Big deal!














































I noticed that when you were still on the little elevator, you always had a little flower.





















































He needed a place to change into a tuxedo, so I gave him the key.





How many people are in this little club of yours?




Four rotten apples in a basket, no matter how big...














Yes, darling.



Wait, honey.









No, don't wait for me, darling.










Well... that's very nice of you.


















































This is the first time I've seen you in civilian clothes.



































You know, I felt so bad this morning.




















































"Good morning, Miss Kubelik." "Good night, Mr. Sheldrake."

























There's something I need to tell you.






- Important?

- Are you ready to order dinner?


Fran, do you remember our last weekend?

That old boat you rented, I'm a black dress and a life jacket.






We need to release long-game records:

















You shouldn't have asked.




Jeff, darling.






- Not that old boat, I hope?



























I'm too old for these things. And Volkswagen.





































































Either look for a bigger car or a smaller girl."






























The office workers will be put into computers and made small holes in them like perfocards.











And you don't have to play innocent in front of me.
















Always happy to help our girls in uniform.




























































- Merry Christmas.


























That big shot in Cuba.


The more I know him, the worse I think about him.







































































- Merry Christmas.


























I need to fix my makeup.

























He's so cute.

Like a little Chi-hua-hua.


























As host, I'd be happy if you could get out of here.









You need to buy a new fridge.











- Good night.
- Good night? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,




















- Do you have to take her to the hospital?





















She needs some fresh air.
























































































































































- Something very important has happened.





She took a big dose of sleeping pills.













































It's like a big lump of gum.












I think I can find a new toothbrush.












What you need is a good boost!







He's a big shot!








- Okay, so we're gonna have to figure this out.






















You don't have to drag anyone in.









But that's not the worst part.
The worst part is, I still love him.



























Who needs this?

You'll find yourself a good, serious man, perhaps a widower, and you'll be happy instead of swallowing all those sleeping pills.







- Mrs. Dreyfus, you don't have to wait.



























































The last one was the manager of a financial company in Pittsburgh.


























































- You got yourself a little girlfriend, huh?














































And they were so cruel that they made me sit here and look at your new liabilities.













- Do you need anything? Money?


















Anyway, I have to run to the grocery store.






















Fine, thank you.

I don't know how important it is, but you'd find it cognitive.









I'm glad you're here.





























- But the bad housewife.
















I really have to go home.



How long does it take to get rid of the memories inside?









- Worse.






It doesn't matter, I parked the car and loaded the gun...



























































We have a lot of employees, but we're one big, happy family.









What has Buddy done for us lately?








- Yeah, you do.
















































































It's important.





I thought you should know first.
At the end of the day, you don't need her, and I do.
And although it may sound presumptuous, she needs someone like me.





















































I'm very happy.

I think she's the kind of girl who definitely needs to marry... someone.























Yes. I'm very happy for you.






















- Good night, Mr Baxter.
- Good night.






It's New Year's Eve.


























But it only takes 30 seconds to get back on the street.









I don't need him anymore because I wash my hands.






- Old bribery won't work anymore.



Are you alone on New Year's Eve?







All I know is I need to get out of here.



















- Happy New Year.

It's all set.





I know it's far away, but it's impossible to find a hotel room in town on New Year's Eve.
The old year called out, the new circus ringing.










- Little punk.







Happy New Year, Fran.












































And why are you laughing, old sea wolves?













With those old legs!


















And you were so small.

























Come back, it's the last two I wrote.













































Reports, Sun Paper, Universal, New Year's Eve!
The papers, the newspaper "SOLNSE"! Universal New! New Year!











I'd put you on the ground and hit you while you had a bloody nose. ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪ But with a little mouse like you...












Because I'm fat and small... when I was born, everyone said I was even worse than I am now.












Big mess. As usual, since we're gonna deal with this, we're gonna go get some rest.






















- Hey, big mom.














They're the ones that swim on big ships and use rare, weird shirts like in gardens.









In his letters, he told me in Mexico. It's a very beautiful and very big city. Much bigger than my city.

The bad news is there's no water in Mexico. 'Cause everyone comes here to swim.









































But of course! You think I'm a bad father like the ones who leave their own children?


She was very beautiful.












The knife... it's beautiful!



What are you doing? Not too big to play with?


Shut up, canary. Come on, we need to hurry to catch up with Chencho.






But there's more to it than Mexican pesos. So you have to give them to me to exchange them. Two times tax each is four.





































































If I'm tired, it doesn't matter where I fall, it's important I can sleep.
























Have the soul of Friederick with the soul of my mother and Pulgarcito's mother. Take care of him and give his dust to the shrimp. And be happy forever. Amin.




- Bad? Why?











I'm very glad you're together and masculine, and that's from this age.












































If he's a thurador, I need to know him.











Sir Matador, I need to talk to you.























I don't know, but the matador needs to be able to pawn and poke, just like the common sergeants and soldiers do.






You'll be my brother. You know, brother is a very important person, he doesn't have to do anything.


Very, sir, but this pickup truck is very bad.

































Where they slept last night.






























Good afternoon, Holy Virgin of Chaladlupa, this is the first time I've come, and even though I haven't had time to study,













As small as you?






























I chose the largest ship, and I sailed on the sea route here.
I know my dad's out here in Mexico somewhere, and I need to find him.










The boy comes from Spain in a small boat to look for his father.








































Yeah, well, at least you look like an important face. So many Spaniards live here in Mexico.















































When he's sad he's so small and so happy.


















No, he's not going to live in such a small, old and ugly room.






And even though I was very young when he left, I remember something exactly.
And it's important that he's as poor as we are?


















Grow up, my dears.
Have a safe journey.





















We'll sow it on our land. And that way we're gonna have a little bit of Mexico.














- Goodbye, darling.
























Bye, darling.





























Bad.






Easy as butter.






































I hate her, but you have to match her, what else do you do?

































































































I'm sorry, if they're beautiful, why shouldn't I talk about it?
- That's cute! - What have you got there?





- You know, you're really cute.
- Sweeter than a shark?









This time it's more than that.

I think we need to talk about this.



What could be more than that?




Believe me, Anna, word needs less and less. They're confusing.




- You said yourself that a month...






You always have to get it dirty.

Please, dear Julia, don't be so educational all the time.

- We have to go. - Why?
















What a beautiful island! Really?











































- Maybe we should ask him.



I'm sorry if I'm insensitive, but it's very important.















































And yet... she acted as if our love... my father, in a sense, wasn't enough, as if she didn't need her.

























- It seems almost calm.
- Calm down?




























Brigadier! Come here, big news.



- We should go and see.




But I think we should definitely go to Milazzo!






















You need money.
























Now I'm ready to forget everything:

























She said she needed a train.







































I'm not ready for that.

































Of course they're comfortable, these little radios.




A lover has to go and look, and a radio can be bought.

















There's a lot of power around here-- they're messing with me.


















































However, it should also be printed in your newspaper.















After you pass 50, my dear, you only feel cold.









Besides, I need him. How can you discuss something when you don't have data, you don't have numbers?










There could be a beautiful clinic here to treat nerve diseases.


17 years old, beautiful age.









Are you ready?










































I'd like to draw you the most beautiful portrait.

Tell that to Claudia. She's much prettier than me.























Give her the best, and she'll do without the basics.























Look, you need to make up your mind.


















Beautiful girl, really.
Beautiful legs.
































We have to go.






















- Because what I do is bad.









Excuse me. Don't be angry, but we don't have to.








It's beautiful up here!







I really need to decide to break up with Ettore.












Because I'm sure you can make very beautiful things.

Who needs beautiful things today, Claudia?





































When you're ready, come here.


















- It's a great way to attract tourists.





































This is a new adventure!












We should have called... or sent a telegram...



















- Why don't we find a quieter place?
- Take it easy?






I should have told Ettora.



Besides, you know very well that you get to say goodbye. It's enough to admit that you drive worse than him.


You don't always have to understand me literally.







































- We need to learn how to sleep.


I never slept, and I had friends who slept even less.
The first person to go to bed paid a fine.
We didn't do anything wrong. When the movie was over, we went to the cafe, we talked, then we sat on the bench and we listened to drunks, or we watched the posters stick,
















Good night, my love.

















































You never have to play melodramatic.



Honey...

Just a little souvenir to remember.































































































What else do you need?








If only you could see how beautiful she is.











- He was the worst.
















































- Santuzza, the new maid.











- I'm really glad you're here. I want to have a good time.
































The new deputies are brilliant politicians of the future, pride and hope for all of Catania.













No, dear Antonio, I don't think the lawyer can...





















































You're the prettiest boy in Catania.


















I need a job, I'm not a boy anymore.


Good night.















- Antonio, how happy I am!

Let me kiss you, darling.

































Good night!






















- No, I'm too happy today.




















Beautiful.











- You're both so beautiful. You and Antonio will have beautiful children.






























































- I'm happy, Dad.
I'm very happy to marry Barbara.












I'm glad I'm going to Rome.




















It's very important to have your own water.





- Beautiful property. - Yes.

Do you need anything else?

- Good night.



Tino, I'm going to bed. Good night.
- Good night.
I'm so happy.

You have a bad reputation.










- Are you happy?







It's beautiful.






Barbara Pulisi, make him happy!












- This is the new maid, Signor Antonio.








Living with love for you, beautiful girl...












Are you okay?
















































- How beautiful you are. And every day it's more beautiful.

























Signor Pulisi says Antonio isn't doing very well, and their marriage is bad.



































- Dear notary, I was going to call you for the same reason.













If Barbara's suffering, Antonio's the first one to worry about it.






















































But my son and your daughter, dear notary, have the same interests.














- My dear notary, how disgusting you are.






































































- Bad news?






- I know everything I need to know.



























































Don't, Antonio.


- I'm ready to kneel in front of Barbara and her father if I hurt them.
- Honey, it's not your fault.

My dear Antonio. Beautiful as the sun.





















It doesn't matter, honey.







- I know what to do.





































I'd like to kiss your legs because I'm a great sinner.










- No, I'm not a little girl anymore.












We're both married women, and you're also a little girl.





















































- Listen, darling, be a good Christian and parent.























































- You're beautiful.
It's small, but it's beautiful.
I like little ones.




















You're gonna do me a big favor, you can get the truth out of him.















Believe me, people are really bad.









I bought a big car.










When I left Catania, dear Antonio, I lost everything.



































- I was so happy that I walked and screamed for joy.


I was young, women wanted me, and from time to time I could make them happy.



- She was as beautiful as an angel.





She was my first love.

































- No, her first husband is alive, but they say he's an inferior man.























You've joined with other thieves, even worse than you!

You've taken possession of land in this beautiful country!










- Leave me alone, you old bitch.























































Antonio, Santazze is very bad.















- Was that the old Nuncio?
































My love, you're too handsome.
It's too beautiful. - Elena, stop it.



















Santuzza, bring me the glasses, darling.



- I'll see him. - How happy he'll be.





I'm glad for you.
- What are you happy about?








There are more important things than love.
Now you have a new life. Fuller, richer... family like everyone else.











It's been six years since Henry IV was killed. His son Louis XIII is 15 years old. Queen Regent Maria Medici makes her favourite Concini into Marshals and appoints him First Minister.











You need full peace.







It's up to him. He's the First Minister.










But as governor of the province, I can only refer you to the First Minister.
















This one? Beautiful.











And be happy.



















Nice boots. New ones.
























It's nice of you to take me with you. I didn't forget how you got my wallet back.

























- I don't have a good memory.
It takes imagination to seduce a woman, but shooting a gun wasn't a joke.














I'm going to bed. Good night, everyone.




- They taught me a new song.












































































































































But I learned that art. You need to know these things to stand up for yourself.




- No, no, you don't.











It's beautiful, but whatever it is, I'm gonna put it here.

Only a muse with beautiful eyes can blow fire into a poet's chest.


















A Beautiful Name














Beautiful, even though you come from beautiful Italy,







You don't need long talks to talk about love.



You don't need long talks to talk about love.

Listening to you... listening to me... I've learned wonderful Paris words.

It means, darling, how beautiful you are.






You don't need long talks to talk about love.


To talk about love, you don't need long speeches. We'll always understand each other.
♪ Hand in hand ♪ ♪ We'll go one way ♪ ♪ and talk about love ♪
Let's go one way and talk about love.







I don't know which field of battle you picked up the Marshal's staff. Everyone knows that you won the First Minister's position in the Queen Mother's Alcove.

Such words are subject to torture. Your presence is the worst of torture.















I need a horse and some things.







































And I thought you were the bravest and most beautiful person I've ever met.












Lorenzo made a new poison. His wine doesn't cloud or change his taste.
















Good to see you, sir.






















Be prepared to respond to my call.




It's a pleasure to introduce my friend Chevalier de Capestan.
















































Sire, we're gonna need the toughest measures here.






Come on. In the face of danger from an arrogant passer-by, let's forget the old quarrels.

















I don't need orders to do my duty.








I'd be happy to fight Concini, but never against the King.





































We need to warn the conspirators. Concini prepared a trap for them.

You're young, and you're not ready for that kind of test.













I need him.








Speak straight if he went to Saint-Le, not for the Duke of Angulem, but for the lovely eyes of his daughter.












- Why do you care about us? - I warned you. I will fight on your side to save my dear creature.



































Cousin, I'm glad the Valois-Bourbon alliance is possible.
























- Very pretty.



- Be happy.










Put me in a wheelchair, I want to test my new legs.




Careful with the cords. - Beautiful, huh?
- Very handsome.
- Very handsome, yes.


































































































































Look... since I'm going out of town with my friends, I need money.































































You need to buy the same thing and join our gang.











- Why? - It's a very bad road.
It's very far away, and the road is very bad.










































Is this an important case? Are you at the reception, I mean, is this about charity?

- About the important, the interdict.



















I'll show you the latest model.







No problem, sir. The point is that the boy has the first communion. Can I have a white boot?
- Yeah? Well, in that case, I'd love to give you a shoe for him.





















I give you my word that Kolyaska will be ready soon.







I need this stroller. I can't take these legs anymore.














































You're allowed, aren't you? Very nice.



Don't worry. Come on, get my new suit.















I wish we had one. The latest model


A couple of strokes, and it's all set.
- And you say the stroller is beautiful?








- And when will you be ready?



- Can I see it?


- Thank you very much. - Come on.

I'm telling you, it doesn't matter. You're coming to dinner with us.
Because Don Vicente is inviting you with great pleasure, isn't he?
























Thank you very much. I've had enough.



















He's cute.
- Goodbye. Thank you very much.






Of course, madam. It's such a beautiful evening.


Our dear lady Marquis.




Thank you very much. I want a cigar.


- You're going to play cars. - If you don't need me anymore, I'll go upstairs.



















Bad thing is, when you get a stroller with a motor, you're gonna leave with the others, and I'm gonna be alone again.

- Yeah, what's gonna be okay? - Look what a lovely evening it is.
- Careful, you need to convince your nephew.







































- It's very important. The most important thing is the race then we'll talk.


Dear Don Anselmo, I tell you, put your hand on your heart.








All you have to do is not come down.





























I'll explain to you what's going on. He put a wheelchair in his head.





















































Even worse, dogs are better treated.










I can give you 4,500. I need an emergency.










































Such a friendly family, so happy and because of this crazy old man.






- And if we can get the stroller back, I'll sue you for ill-treatment.



- It's a big responsibility. Leave them there in the car.





















Come on, here's what we're gonna do! I'm ready to return the checks that Senor Proaran signed.









You don't want the money back. Be Ready for the Consequences
I'm ready for the consequences of the Cheki. You can have 8,000 pesetas!
And that's not the worst part. The worst part is that I have a father who spends money.
Come on. - When will the checks be ready?























































- What the hell do you need a wheelchair for?






















I think it's bad that I'm paying you because with this constant salary,






- I'll do it tomorrow. - We have to come today.




Do you hear me? - Your father's crying because of you. - Bad son.















- It doesn't matter.
The important thing is that now we're going out together.




























No, I'm not disabled, but it doesn't matter. It's important that you make peace with Julitha.
You're acting like little people.


















Would you do me a favor? I need a phone badge.






Yeah, but it doesn't matter.
- Where are you?




- Tell him it doesn't matter, let him come back.
Never mind, come back, Grandpa - kiss, Yolanda.



















A large knife to cut the carcasses.


















































































































How happy you must be, Paul!





Go your own way!








I'm glad I didn't get into your fucking family.








































That's exactly what I need.





It's gonna need a bigger caliber.

We need to shoot at point-blank range.


It's so big!

























































Say it again, my dear Jules.









- I can say worse than that.































































What the hell is that? What do you want?






The pit is too small.
Right, Jules, the pit is too small.




































































































What do you want?




















That's what I explain in class one.
On the first one, yes, but on the last one...





















That's how you count zeros.




























Ryabinnick is worth two francs more than a jerk. But they have different tastes.






When the pressure's too high, you have to release steam.












You don't have to look at size, you have to look at work experience.





































And willing to do anything for the money.








Excuse me, gentlemen of the gendarmes, do you know this is a big bank?



































You have to buy while the course goes down.










- You don't need that.









Millions? Worse.



























I'd love that, Jules.

















There's no need for proof, though.






































































- What do you want?







We need to talk.




























Some were talking about bikes, others were talking about generosity. Then I thought, "Fina's a great accountant."



















I was very pleased with your invitation.















But it's gonna be the last one, and the first one's gonna be the last.

We don't have to go anywhere.





And they're all skinny. If anyone cares about them, they do it badly.



And we will pray that they weigh less than 75 g.

















































































































































There's nothing worse than lust.























But what's he gonna do when he's got more money than a sheet?











































Maybe he needs something else.




I guess there is if he needs it.




























I need an iron box.


















If you don't need it, I'll give it to the others.









































All the old bills used to be new.
















































































Eat. That's the last one.









What do you want?








































- Plus, the new tenant...














































She's a young girl with no money, no shoes, no hat to keep her little head warm in winter.























- Nice to meet you.




















"We saw the Countess with the new doctor at night..."


















Building and plastic magnets aren't here... the most important in the industrial field.















Let's finish first lesson! Good evening, everyone!



















I have to get out of here to the big city.




I read there's a big theater company coming in the other day.
















Yes, one day you will be in the church and contact the first priest you find.

You're young, beautiful, you can do anything.

Struggling for something bigger than climbing the wall.




- Dolphins? - That's what they call them, just like they call the first son of an old king of France.










- Come on, darling.





















By the way, that girl who was with him at the show wasn't bad, was she?




Indeed, Kere invited her new friend, young doctor and girlfriend Fedora, who was with him, bothering them to death.


















Tell me, darling, why would you bring these people to our house?


















































We need to be careful. These little urban kids are so advanced.

















Why do you always want to make a bad impression?














The mayor will be a fine detective.






































City square is extinct, and then... all the profits - the cashiers of Meletti's Cafe, where, Sunday morning, important people, and we were important, most important, were filled like a sardine can.


Every morning at 11:00, two dozen roses for Signora Elsa. They're very beautiful!







































Coffee, please. Maybe it's just me, but you look like something's happened, some big grief.











No, because I'm the first one to do it.





It's the first time I've seen you around until noon.












No, it's just been a bad day.



































But it was a short connection that ends at dawn, with the first rays of sunshine that go through open blinds.





You impressed me the first time I saw you.











I assure you, it's not that big a sacrifice.
The happiest person in our company at the time was Fedora.








- You're happy, aren't you?












They're happy.



























Of course, that's a great idea! You know what we're gonna do?
























The important thing is that they're good together, they love each other.





It's so vulgar and old!





I don't think I've ever been happy in my life, like that day on the seaside.
The indifference and the sadness covered me, especially in the last days of our separation, it went away as soon as she got off the train. And as soon as I was in my hands.










Why did you say you were so happy in Switzerland? No, Anselmo!



For the first time, I've lived alone for so long. I've had a lot of time to think about some things.








Do you know that when we get home, you have to do a big job?










Anselmo, I don't think it's gonna be bad.




























































Didn't you say you'd stay until 8:00? The last bus leaves at 7:00.





















It was important for me to leave the house so I wouldn't see my father again.


- Yeah, I left a letter on the table explaining everything, or almost everything.





































- I asked you first.



That's the second question, and you haven't answered the first question yet.



















Anselmo, we don't need this.
















The worst part is, I can't connect with the other side...





Weak excuse, Anselmo. If you want money, I'll give it to you.
How much do you need?













A modern finale for a noble, old maiden.


































































You don't care if I'm happy or not!





























You know, the scandal is now... the new contract that we have with the representatives of the left wing... your father... you understand, don't you?














Your mother's gonna be happy, she's gonna get everything she ever wanted.












Then look, as long as you can, this is the last time.



















They're beautiful.







- Marina, darling!





































It's big news tonight.








Then, first gift for Fedora.
- What do you mean, first gift? - I don't know. Are you happy?




Anselmo... "Goodbye, my dear, goodbye..."


Kera always has great ideas, doesn't she?













Thank you, it's very beautiful.


















I have a second half and one day... we can reunite on a desert island, or in a enchanted castle.










I need to talk to you about something.


































































My dad's gonna figure this out. Are you happy?















Remember when you told me about the dolphins that first night?






Everything you say is so beautiful and right...














































































No, you can't, sweetheart. Why would he need money? You need information, so pay me.






















You need to be taught, Marchie.























Have a good evening!














































Yes. If you take me home, you'll do me a great favor.
























Young or old?



Are they worse than others?






































Your coffee's ready.








Thank you very much. Where's the best place to turn?









































With a smile opening beautiful teeth, charming Sylvia... tastes the Italians' favourite dish, a symbol of our national life.




















Beautiful?


























You appeared on the day of the creation of the world. You're the first woman of the first day of life on earth.











Hello, darling!


























Calm down, darling.
































I'll call you later. Good night.





























Well, Marcy, it's all set.




I don't care about that, honey, I'm working.




Nice to meet you.









































































Dario and Maria, fine.



Beautiful.











He saw her first.






Does it matter if Madonna was or wasn't?













All set?













Among the latter, journalists... represent the press of many countries around the world.














I'm with you. No, darling, it's not necessary.












Great, cute kids, ready to shoot!



























How beautiful you are!









- Nice to meet you. - She's your admirer. She doesn't say a word because she doesn't know a word in Italian.


And I want to say, when you love Marcello more than you love yourself... you'll be happy.






Honey, don't be angry, but I made a mistake.
A mysterious and passionate Eastern woman... resembles a little tiger.




You're very beautiful.





It's a pleasure.

And who needs this civilization? We don't even know how to love.






















































It's an old tape.







I find them beautiful.















You little bastard!






Say good night to everyone.























Just don't look for a way out of a peaceful existence like mine.











































































I have a lot of experience.

























I've got a lot of connections, I'm my own man at the Ministry, at the Vatican.













It's a great job. In a sense, it's a great art.






















It's probably Cha-cha-cha, it's an old restaurant.
























Beautiful.

























Beautiful, as always.































You ordered champagne, very nice.

























You have to stick a coin to your forehead, like this.























That's a great story!
Champagne's over, we need another bottle.






I'm ready.













What beautiful, bottomless eyes you have!














Don't worry, I'm in a great company, leave me alone.
















Marcello, your father is sick. What's wrong with him?



We need drops now.














He got sick.





































Thank you, Signora. It was good to see you, son.









































Good evening, my dear!











- Rubini, it's a pleasure.






And I'm gonna need a nurse tonight, and I miss the milk.










I think it's more important to deal with our business.

My first husband was a journalist. In his articles, he was interested in the subtlety of reality.














And this is little Leonora.


















































I don't know why, but today I felt like I needed you.

















Hi, honey, we're going after ghosts.


You know, in my brother's castle, we once saw... the phenomenon of a little girl with a candle in her hand.











There's a door, it's locked, you need a key.









When was the last time you were here?



I've got a bigger job to do.






































































Our new supplier turned out to be a thief, 45 lire per egg.
We have to go shopping to Capranika.




We were at the old villa.














They're happy when they meet a loving woman... and they don't chase every skirt.














That's when you realize that no one but me needed it.





A woman who loves you and is willing to sacrifice everything for you.














And I'm saying it's the last time we see each other.























































Doctor, I'm going to meet Signora, quarter-one.































Yeah, I'm calm, just tell me everything.




















Now I'm just doing advertising, and I'd love to.


































Beautiful! Patricia, Patricia.
So, the holiday stripper of our sweet Nadia... dedicated to the beginning of her new free life.










Congratulations, Marcello, you've done a great job!






























Tomorrow at 6:00, I'm going to Nice... so in half an hour you won't be here. It's a pleasure.














As a first game, I suggest someone make love... with the American ballerina.






















Come on, darling, calm down, I want to entertain you, too.


























This girl's not well.

I feel bad.




















It was really nice. But I think that's enough.
























































For most of the year, I practiced in the most isolated part of the Roman suburbs.








































It's a pleasure.

And Carmilla von Karnstein, the last of the Austrian branch of our family.


I'm gonna give you a big costume ball for Georgia Montaverdy.



To succeed, fireworks have to solve geographical, mathematical and theatrical problems.






The cemetery is the nicest place for fireworks.







I need a few men for earthworks.









Are there big bats here?








More than that.















That's what you have to do to win me over.






























You're so sweet, so young, so trusting.



























That's so sweet!
















The sixth setup is ready.

The seventh setup is ready.










I want you to meet the last guest, Millarke.
















What an amazing beauty Aunt Clara was today.















She's beautiful.





















Such beautiful ruins...

































She's very nice.
You'll see how cute she is when she gets into your eyes.










When I'm happy, I close my eyes.























For the first time, I was wrong about the Gabsburgs.





























































It's broken, Mademoiselle. It's such a beautiful dress.





Miss knows that in a small house.






































"She needs to consult a doctor," answered Mademoiselle Georgia's father and Count Leopoldo.






Miss don't have to walk around in this beautiful dress.















Good night, my Beethoven.

















It's actually black, but it doesn't matter, it's still beautiful.


























The Karnsteins aren't the kind of family that everyone's happy about.





























































































I feel so old.








I've known since day one. You love Leopoldo.

You feel bad about him.

You just need to talk to me.













I don't need a sneezing newlywed.


My dear Chairman.






Carmilla is our last night here.






















Georgia, my dear, what happened?








Is everything ready?



It's all set, Sergeant.



































Honey.







It goes on with the last of the Karnsteins.

I need your help.










It's not a big deal. Old story:

















































Then I'll be happy, you'll be happy, and so will your father.



















I wish I had a beautiful, long dream but it never happens.










I'll tell him you're all sick and nobody woke me up the candles weren't ready, and Tony wasn't.






What you need is a confessional, and closer.






















I know a beautiful and fragrant garden.



Happy streams spin through the green valleys in the early spring.
A little bird floats so high, slips softly into the power of a light breeze.





































Worse than that.


























































What do you want?


























Fetch more clay, fertilize less sand.


















You're almost ready to cross a narrow crossing over the river.






























It's expensive for us, but we have no choice but to offer it for sale.
We see that you like beautiful things and that was the most valuable thing our sister had.


I have to ask my husband what the appropriate price should be for such an expensive thing.




























































Now that everything is in our power, when all the facts have come to light, I'm prepared to admit that our relationship was pure pornography.







So you need me to make it work?






I'm ready to agree to a divorce. So you don't have to look at my old-fashioned face anymore.
I tried to be more beautiful for you.





















I knew you were popular with old ladies, but when she showed up, it was like a mummy coming out of a tomb.


Seeing old women always gives me the creeps, but remember, we're gonna need millions before I find a way to rejuvenate them.














And his death will give you life, a new life.























Don't you want to bring youth back to old people?













We need another component that needs to be mixed with it. That's when you can get your youth back.














I'll do a new test, of course.































- I don't need a doctor.

- I don't need a doctor.
Neal, I'm so glad you're here.
It's so good to see you here now.


















I'm willing to swear it.


Yeah, she also said that when you mix it with another powder, old people can get their youth back.





June, I need you.




I'm willing to do anything for you.


Traveling together, new country, jungle. 'Cause it's so great.



Honey, if you decide to leave me again, it'll be the end for me.
Honey, don't think about it now.









Is there a big game going on?

It's $5,000 now, and $20,000 later if I find what I need.
Doctor, it's a lot of money, but I'm afraid there's nothing I can do for you.



You haven't said a word about guns or wild animals, but you're not the first scientist to ask me about the Nandu tribe.

Dr. Talbot, of course I'd love to get that kind of money, but I can't help you find something that doesn't exist.

I only need you as a guide.






But by her voice, I knew she was old.
Too old.















Now everyone rest. Good night.
Good night.




























I'm willing to do anything for you.
Paul, I'm willing to die for you.



And you're gonna be beautiful again.
As beautiful as she was when we first met.













































I don't think we have much choice.



































I came here to die, Dr Talbot, but before the old Nandu women die, they get their last chance to be young again. They get a few days of happiness and love before they turn into dust.









And for old women, it's nothing.


What kind of woman, when she's old, isn't ready to do anything just for a few minutes not to return her young years, this joy, beauty, and the adoring of men?

So old Nandu women want to enjoy their beauty and love for the last time before they die.








And I'm willing to believe that.




















Honey. Garvey and I, we'll be back tomorrow, because now we know exactly where they are.













Dear gold necklace. You asked me to hide it in a private place.


Despite the short time I've had, I'm ready to accept this necklace.













































- I need your help.





- I need powder!
























































































- To your new home.


































































I need the money until I get Paul's insurance.













































Isn't this where the view opens?

As beautiful as you are.
















That's not good.






Especially since you're wearing such precious jewels.








Must be a very important job.















Everything's ready for a beautiful evening, isn't it?



































































And he was last seen in a company with an old lady.























According to witnesses, your aunt was wearing a big diamond necklace tonight.

I'm ready to confirm that Mrs Talbot's diamond necklace is here now.



















I'm gonna be beautiful again.

























- What's wrong with such a beautiful sonathine?

























Next time, madam, he must have mastered the first part.






























- Beautiful weather for a walk.



































I shouldn't have had so much wine.

































When was I just a kid?













Oh, yeah, but you were just a kid.



Tell me about when I was a kid.
























It must be said that it was a woman who often looked at men in the morning, men who went to work in the arsenal.









































The first time I saw you was at the end of May last year.


You leaned on a big piano, and your black dress between the breasts was pinched by a magnolia flower.







But before I go, I'd like to know the last detail. Even if you're not so sure.








My dear.



Let's go there, I told my buddy you'd buy me a big red motor.





































I've always known, always, these last years...







The summer was hot the year they first met.
He's been giving up his job lately.












To him, she stopped being beautiful, young, old or dead.













What's the rhythm of this cute little sonatine?















































They're caught in large nets and then transported to other forests.








































Maybe he wanted to kill her very soon, the first time he saw her.









The first time I said to myself,


It's such a beautiful evening!










Right now, he's learning the little sonatine of Diabelli.





The treasure! He's as small as he can be!

















The treasure must be just happy!























































Maybe it was better to shoot. To be calm.
Easy...
Now I'm calm.



















































































We need to load the barrels.







The water here is bad...




















- Bad offer?
- Bad.



























It takes an effort. And it's not paid.














The further, the worse.
The water here is bad.






You need a heart.


























































Actually, I don't need you.


The water here is bad.






















Not the last of this old girl!


















The throat's getting worse and worse...















A man is happy in his sleep!
The water here is bad.

























































- Why are you in a bad mood?

























































































See... we're not so bad together.













































Lucina is sweet, kind and impeccable.




























































George, the most beautiful thing about Alaska is that marriage hasn't gotten here yet.








Sam, honey!
George Pratt, sweet British!





I'm glad you can see that. - How old are you now?








You seem to have attacked the biggest gold mine in the county.























A whole ship of new girls!






















Big fever.



Brilliantly said." Big fever"!




















I always buy the first one.


















- How much do you need?









- Doesn't matter.

















































You should have waited until you left!















The world is small, isn't it?








That's very nice of you.
























I'm glad to say he's healthy, and I have to take you to Alaska for the wedding.










More important things are packed in a hotel.












































Easy, I need to think.




Good night, sir.










Good night, lady. This is for you.
For being smart, showing off the legs, they were cute.


































I'm from New Orleans, it's always warm.












The old short yes, and it's all yours.



No one has ever given me such beautiful things.






And I'm ready to jump, mister!














Where else am I gonna hang out looking for an old friend of McCord's?

I'm so happy for you!


























What a beautiful dress, Sam.


























This is my old friend Lena Nordquist.





















I'm in a bad mood.

















I hate it when people look down on those who didn't do anything wrong to them.







































I have a big bet with Oscar. - Me too!

















You did well with an old friend.








Now I'm calm for you.


Ready...










Let's drink to one of the most beautiful lady Seattle--


Now let's drink to another beautiful lady.


Everyone drinks to another beautiful lady, Angel!

























I'll help you, darling. - Thank you, Lena.




It's a beautiful afternoon.














Sam, that's great!






Wait, honey.



















Something beautiful.












































- Is he big and strong?

- Small and fat?




I'd be very happy to make your friend happy if I could. No! No!



















I'm glad you agree with me.


Good night, Sam.
Good night.








Nice girl.



























I guess I took so long to take care of you that I forgot you weren't a little girl.









He's a nice guy, but Jenny's freaking out.















Is it that bad?












I need a room and a bathroom for the lady.















- Sam, I had two aces. And that guy has one queen, one last prank.





I don't need skinny. But with a butt like a drum, I don't want one either!








If you and the lady need a room... not me.


I'm sure I have what I need.
I want to take this opportunity to forget all the old grudges.












A fraud like that is a big disaster for everyone.

















It's beautiful!















You're twice as beautiful as you were in New Orleans.




Those happy days... and the nights.





















































































If I drank less whiskey and more water from the stream, maybe this gold would be mine.






















It's beautiful!
Beautiful? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,






















I'm so glad you're back!
I'm not happy.












































It's beautiful!
I mean, it's beautiful here.















Do you need anything?










Little boy.




God, what a lovely smell!











Very nice.





































You know. I think a man needs an older woman.


Don't you think we should wash the dishes and go to bed?

Beautiful.

























































Hey, big bull.












You and I are old friends...











































































I'm almost ready, help me zip my blouse.

























She's French, like Jenny, beautiful like Jenny.



















- You don't have to, 'cause I'm a whore.


It doesn't matter.































You have a lot of packing to do, and...





But Michelle's a beautiful girl, and I like her.















It's good to see you smile again.









































What a beautiful language!






I'll be ready in a minute, Mr. Pratt.

Beautiful bed! And soft.

- Glad you like her.

- I'm ready.
You don't have to.






































They're too expensive, too beautiful and...




















































All women are liars. And if you don't, even worse, they're making you wedding music.







































































I need owners. I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-






















































































































































































Nice to meet you, Boggs. Billy!


- I'm cleaning. I'm the new janitor.
Where's the old one, Boggs?

























































































And Mr. Canon said I don't have to take the broom any more until I'm dead.

Let's drink and sing. Ready?


































































Doesn't matter why?
















It's the most beautiful gift of my life!
























































The last two months weren't a big deal.














If things don't go better, we'll find a new mom.










Because I don't think it's important.






























Thank you so much for everything.


He didn't want to order tickets in first grade.






















































It's important for business.


It's beautiful.






















There are many new faces here, but there is a lack of life.





















Oh... it's so good to see you!





She knew what approach I needed.









Thank you very much, Keiko.


You bought yourself a new car.






- Mom, you have a beautiful kimono.

I'm really glad you came.

Your dress is very beautiful, too.
















President of a large electronic company.









































After all, I went to a new bar.

It's so good to see you!










Thank you very much.


It's very important.




















I'd love to marry a man like you.


Beautiful men are traitors.

























It's very difficult to run a small factory.



It's all about worrying about my new bar.

Thank you very much.










































You're gonna be late for the last train.










































Same as the use of expensive clothes and perfume.






There's been too much spending this month.


But... it's an old bar bill, so, you know... Mom's got a problem with it.


















It's bad...




Thank you very much.
You're as good at omelet as you are at a restaurant.





But things aren't gonna help a bad cook.











He wasn't very handsome, but he was a very good man.















There's no reason to be ashamed because it's beautiful and romantic to do that.


































Besides, I have to buy a new kimono.































I'd love to, but the other day, I finished paying for the last one I bought.
































It's an important age for a woman.









Small bars in the Hinds... cost a few million yen.














Life can be worse.









I need some advice.


































The first instalment is very small.









Not at first.











































That's a great idea, isn't it?




















Some men promised me even more than I expected. The others are smaller.


















Is it bad?






Honey?



Did you get all the money you needed?


That's not good.







I'd be happier if you married a good man.
You're the first person to tell me that.



I don't know why you decided to work in a terrible place like a bar. You really need a nice house.




He makes me sick.
Buying a new kimono, selling tickets...



I'm fine, Mama. And here's the "Syrene" that's getting worse and worse.







































We need your seal.








































You're even prettier than I thought.



















































I've been in bed all Christmas holidays... and even New Year's Eve.











Thank you very much.

I'm glad.




Thank you very much.
This is the first time I've ever been here.
Turns out there's still something left of old Tokyo.




Thank you very much.


It's a very expensive gift.





Really? Such a cute face.


I should have gone to school by now, but I needed surgery.




Your health is more important than yours.











Thank you very much.
































Like an old maid.















I'm getting older and older with every passing day.



























The only thing that came to mind was what was better in the old days.



































That's why we need expensive apartments, cars... and perfume, everything to make things work.
It doesn't matter to men to know that I don't live in a place like this.



She'd go to an expensive hospital.

















I hate this job from day one.











She doesn't have to pay a lawyer.














I know... it's bad.





















































































What do you want?










You need more money?




Yeah, but he's gonna need... a massage course for six months after surgery.


















This is the last time.






















































































He's not really bad, but he likes to wonder.



You're such a beautiful woman.










































Ah, I'm glad you're here.





Are you okay?





































But I'm still happy now.







































I admired the fact that you fought. You were beautiful.
























That's bad, isn't it?




Is that bad?























Thank you very much.





I'm very glad your husband was promoted.
Thank you very much.





Thank you very much.





She's very beautiful.




















































- Take it yourself, my dear.













- Thank you very much.














Thank you very much, sir.












































It's her first time.


He said you don't need to take pictures of my face.





It's my first time, too.





Happy birthday, dear Helen.











































- Oh, thank you very much.

























- Most of the time, I work at a movie studio.











































Helen, this is my first present I've ever given on my 21st birthday.
And the first one I've ever asked for.

Mark, what a handsome little boy.






























































































Good night, Mark.
Good night, buddy.


















In light of the new economic course, if you see it and you hear it, the first step is a good one.

And, darling, this time, could you make an effort and forget how stunning you are and just try to look stunned?





No, no, no, honey.































You're beautiful, darling.












Good night, Miss Vivian.




































- Does it matter?
- Oh, it's important!




The result has to be so beautiful... that you don't need to pay attention to the risk.















And the biggest...

Then I'm big.














I'm gonna be a beautiful day from day to day with a fabulous nail.





















I'm ready, Viv.













Are you ready, Viv?



























And that, darling, is all the news.

















- Doesn't matter.







































- Mark, that's nice of you, really.





Oh, it's beautiful.























Just today, I learned that my first book will be published in the spring.





































- Good night.
- Good night.









Now you understand, darling, don't you?
See, instead of taking the first bag, I want you to ask me to show you red.

- And asked... I'm sorry, darling...





















Ready?













































It's something new for me.






























































- When was the last time you saw her?































































"She was in Arthur Badn's new film...




- Yes, darling." Sir Love... "












- Now, darling.













Honey, this is Mark.









Thank you very much!










I like first-hand information.










Bye, darling. - Good night.







Do you need her tonight?
Do you need it?

- No, I don't need her today.























- It's very nice there for Christmas. - Really?









It belongs to a little boy, and she sees adults as they were children.
I was hoping you'd be ready for what you were...






- All you have to do is catch a moment.






It was a beautiful evening.










































































































Good night, Mrs. Stevens.














Now, darling, calm down, I know you'll be perfect.




Of course, darling.






Now, darling, be brave.






- Calm down, darling, and relax.


























Thank you very much.













































































- Last try for today.




















- I had a date with a new guy.























You haven't had much time for me lately.































































- But, honey. / / /





































- I've been ready for this for so long.


















And I'm glad I'm scared.






- Good night, Dad.


















































































You have a very beautiful white folder.
You have a beautiful folder. Yeah, thanks.





















































What's up, darling?















You love that little girl, you love her, you think she's beautiful. Well?






























Sweetheart Marge, darling.


Sweetheart Marge, darling.

She knows I love my little Marge and I'll never leave her to follow the bad master my dad sent after me.












To my regret, dear Tom, I have to admit that your mission failed and ended.









Thank you very much.







Take the little suitcase.




































































































































My new foreword.

































































Marge, my dear Marge, darling, this evil gentleman will never be able to separate us.








































I'm glad you're here.











































































Dear Marge...




Does he look happy?










It's flat and it's gone. It's worse than if he died.









If you want, I'll show you the old town.








Let's go to the old town. Come on.







Thank you very much. - Take the keys from the manager.
- Thank you very much, Signor.






















Here's my new address: Savoya Street...













- It's beautiful.








Dear Marge, ever since we broke up, I've hesitated...















































Tom, you're a big fictionist.






























- I need ten million lire.






















































Have you seen Mr Greenleaf in the last few days?


































You dance, you dance, you dance, honey.


Honey, don't walk on the edge, it's dangerous.








- Yeah. If he didn't do anything wrong, if he didn't kill...
- You didn't? - Yeah, honey.


Knowing that, darling, you can't imagine how excited I am.




One day he'll show up.
































Dear Mother, I'm going out of my life voluntarily.











I'm gonna break the door, you old jerk!


































Have a safe journey.













Hello, madam, I am very pleased with your success.



























Honey...























- What do you want?


It's a pleasure.




























Here, it's all in place. Beautiful.






























- Yes, darling.

- What, honey? - Let the railway manager know.


- Yes, darling.

















- We have to take this.












- Good to see you.


Here, in the back seat, darling.



You think she's gonna need a car?






















The gentleness of life... life comes and disappears like air. James, New Testament.

























Pollyanna, this is your new home now, and I hope you'll be happy here.









- You have a very beautiful house.

You must be awfully happy.










- Mrs. Tarbell saw him first.


The old gossip Tarbell will take care of it...



- I need help.


- I was very pleased to meet you, Mrs. Lagerleuf.



























What do you want?












I'm very happy.

And it's such a beautiful window.






























Pollyanna, I think there's something we need to agree on.














Pollyanna, I think we need to talk about you and your place in our community.



























New clothes?







And new underwear and stockings and underwear...

















How are you, darling?











- No, that's not a good idea.












Old cousin Fred is taking you to the country of strawberry ice cream.


































He's very handsome, and he has a beautiful smile.
















I think it's because of my new dress.
Polly, we need to talk before Carl Warren gets here.
















- I'll see if it's ready, Polly. - Thank you.
It's good to see you again.

I thought I'd take a break. First vacation in five years.
































There's my aunt... the beautiful one.






I mean, if we're gonna be proud of this shelter, it's time to build him a new decent building.


If we were all a little calmer, more organized and more kind...


All you have to do is replace the pipes.



Everyone was happy when my father gave the building to the city.

It's a rotten old building!











It'll cost more to repair this building than to build a new one.



















As mayor, you don't need me here-- Polly Harrington runs this place!












Oh, it's beautiful!


- He's beautiful, isn't he?


















I don't think so. Who needs an old Harrintgton with a sour face?


I'm very happy. I think it's best for everyone to be married.
And maybe when you and George get married, Aunt Polly will see how happy you are and want to get married.






























But you have to remember the covenant.


No! No! I wasn't ready for her.






























You, sitting here, calm for your health, confident for your well-being.











My dear, Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel, they all wrote with flaming feathers.


- Your voice is God's tool, and you have to use it properly.









I'm so happy! Are you starting again?











Because this is the beginning of a new week.























You're too young to talk that way.


You must be small.
You're a little girl, too!




What do you want?
















It once seemed very important.

Aunt Polly is very beautiful.





It must have been beautiful.
Yeah, that was really beautiful.


















- What's this house? - This is old Pendegast's house.




It's his old damp basement with rats.







Beautiful, isn't it?

You brought me here just to show me this old twilight tree?


















I got you, you little bastard.

Come back! You're a little villain.






























We just wanted to climb an old tree.






























It's just old dusty junk.





















Isn't it beautiful?






































It'll be nice to see the old people again.
I'm sure Harry and Nell will be happy to see you.






I thought it would be nice for you to see some old friends.


















She's too young for so many kids, that's all.
She needs to be remodeled.

Just tell us what you need. I'll pay for it.














Pollyanna, with your new dress, it's all dirty.










He said it was beautiful.
Yeah? Okay... get ready for dinner, darling.




Nancy's gonna tell you where to deliver it.

- Charity baskets, darling.











Hurry up, darling.








Well, I have to go now.








































My mom let me go, but at the last minute she changed her mind.






























You have a little chicken nose.

I'd like to be as beautiful as you are.

I'm not that pretty at all.





















" Turn your ears and walk your way!"


























































That's the first thing you have to do in the morning.









- Hey, honey.



Old Uncle George.



- I need a big truck.



- To raise money for a new shelter.






















There's gonna be a big bazaar soon, and I'm in.









































I'll explain, if you don't mind, Miss Little Knower.






































The most beautiful room in the world.









You see, there's a big bazaar in town... they want to raise money to build a new shelter.
- I like the old one.

We need help, we need everyone involved.





But I need you there!
Do you need me?



I don't impose bronze on you, but they have a longer term of service.
Yeah, silver is prettier, but you're right about the bronze.






































- It's a great choice.
- Yes. With bronze hands, that's gonna be great.







Yeah... yeah, this atlas is beautiful.























And that's why Dad asked for a little old doll to be sent on the mission.



But my dad invented a happy game!








And he came up with a game." Happy game.
"Happy" game.




But we can be happy that we don't have to use them.




You shouldn't think you're dying, but enjoy life!























































It's a small town.


Easy, Pendegast.

























You need my help.










But it's a bad substitute for what you're missing, Polly.




















- Hey, honey.








- We need to find someone who doesn't depend on her.










I don't dare influence the fragile social balance in our little town.













Thank you very much.




- Hello, darling.





Thank you. - Beautiful day, isn't it?




















- You don't need anyone to rehearse the sermon?























"When you're looking for the bad..."


"When you look for the bad in a man..." "and you will certainly find it." &amp; &lt;.................................................................... Abraham Lincoln


























Honey, is everything okay?




It's one of the "happy" or "happy" links.















It's a beautiful day...






















There's gonna be a big bazaar, and without Pollinna, the flag isn't gonna work...
Pollyanna's too small to walk alone at night.


Good night.
































- Thank you very much.
And this is for you, my dear.














- Here you go, my dear.











Mrs. Snow, how beautiful! Hey, Millie.

Honey, you need to hurry.





Beautiful handmade braid blanket.










And you can win a beautiful doll if you catch it in the pond.












































"Oh, beautiful in the vastness of heaven







"Oh, beautiful in the vastness of heaven










Good night.
- Good night.


Since you became my beautiful fiancée.































































Do you understand everything I said, darling?



Yes, darling?

Do you hear me, darling?









Yes, darling...













- Tell Dr. Chilton the car's ready. - Yes.



We're gonna need a full X-ray as soon as we get there.




We need your consent for the operation.









- We need to give her time. - Time?

She needs to get to Baltimore, operate...
The child needs to be given hope.
Hope? She just needs love.









We have to stop them.








Walk the other way!



















Oh, what beautiful flowers.

I'm really glad you came.








It's gonna be okay, honey.




Hello, darling.

Goodbye, darling.










And I'll be waiting for you, darling...













Get well, darling.





- Hello, darling. We have news for you.




























Sam, this is the last time.

























It's a lot of work.






































Ladies, you need to get the chief to set up an air conditioner here.



My little girl.












































You need to spend the weekend in Las Vegas, where the world plays.







Of course I'm glad to see you.
I'm always happy.









It's full of motels, you needed... and safer...



















There's an old saying that the first buyer is always the most complicated.















What you can't do when you buy old cars is hurry.





















































Like I said, I was the last one to see your sister when she left the office on Friday.




I think you should come to my office and hurry up.






I'm not ready to say goodbye to $40,000!

















We built a new highway.








Number one, that's closer, in case you need anything.


Ten miles down the road, there's a big restaurant just behind Fairwell.






















Settle down and take off your wet shoes. - I'll be back as soon as it's ready.























































And it's not as expensive as you think.





























But you should have.
















I don't think you need to talk while you're eating.
Actually, it was too much of a loss for her.


Yeah, but a son is a bad substitute for a lover.































She needs me.


























Good night.













































































I've seen so many motels in the last two days that my eyes are tired of neon. But this is the first place that seems to be hiding from the world.






































I wouldn't even change the sheets, but it's hard to get old habits.




The couple said last week that if it weren't for the lights, they'd think it was an old abandoned...



What did you say? It's hard to get old habits.













































































If I wanted to check the numbers, all 12 of them, I'd need a warrant?








































- Do I need a warrant?










It's here on the old highway.
I even know she was in number one.



All you have to do is put it together.



















- How far is the old highway?





















An old sick woman can't open it or won't.



















He called us. And he said he tracked her to the motel on the old highway.



























That's why I need your help.






















































































































- I suppose you need a room.







He needs a detailed report.
















To start a new case somewhere else?


If he opens a motel on a new highway, like, a year from now, it's... it's gonna be evidence, like, that he got that money from Marion.



Remember the last time we spoke on the phone?





































I thought people living alone all the time would be more word-for-word in the first case.









I'm not saying you're not well here, but... I doubt it.




I had a happy childhood.
My mom and I were very happy.





Buy a new motel in the new city and not hide your mother.














































































He was always bad, and he even wanted to tell them that I was the one who killed those girls and the man. It's like I'm capable of anything but sitting and watching one of his things.



















If you want him to grow up, you don't have to watch him all the time, do you?





Don't despair, Louis, it's not as bad as you think it is.




















- Thank you very much.















- You think it'll be better in the old style?
I have to go to Maria. I don't want to be late.
I'm so glad I could do a gig now.

You'll be very happy, John.



I don't make much money, so I need two years.


The poorer you are, the more expensive you are.





I'm sure she'll be so happy she'll almost cry.





































































I need my hand, I'm a mechanic!



















- Well, you know, it's an old and slow taxi.
Next year I'll buy a new one if I can afford it.









- Dear... dear boy!


























- Not a cent, 'cause it's a big holiday!






Come on, honey, let's go.








































Worst-case scenario, they're gonna drop conventional bombs that don't scare anyone.


























See, that's the problem when you're the boss: everybody needs you.





Be happy.




























This is one of the most important moments of your life.





It was all important yesterday.

So... I think we need to hurry and finish.


































Old railwaymen don't give up!





















- We'll give you everything, don't worry, everything you need, we've got it. Even the toothbrush!





































































































First!
If you're ready, follow me!















All you need is one index finger.




















Ready?
















































Look, I just finished paying the rent... last month's deposit.









You look like a man I love, and...














































At the last session of the United Nations, everyone agreed that the atomic bomb would never be used...





















- We've all been given a beautiful uniform, I...




















You're not leaving anymore, I need you. - I must obey orders.



































































But still, the world is a big pile of...


I'm sure it can't be as bad as we all think sometimes.









































- Maria, we're too old for this, but we're in the shower.









































- In that case, all of us need to be shot!










- First squad, ready?



















































































We'd love to, Captain, now that it's all over for you to come over for a drink.
Yeah, that would be great.


I'd love to, very nice.












Yes, sir, fine.














































































As long as you need to make a deal.



































































Ciro, look how beautiful it is!





Where do we go? We need this address.






























This new fashion is like a disease.










Rosaria, darling!
Rosaria, honey, the whole family is here!





















Congratulations, Rosaria, you have beautiful sons.









I'm glad you came to bless us.
































But I need to think about my daughter, too, okay?








































































































It's okay, Mom. Luca, look, darling, it's snowing!





Simone, darling, get up.


Get up, get up. Look, everyone's almost ready.
















I'm ready.








- Clever. Simone! Simone, come here, darling!

First day of work. It's so cold!












Get dressed, darling, zip up.












Simone, put on your hat, darling.










Vincenzo, work hard, honey.

















































































































































She's beautiful.



It's just the skin is bad, like all the northers.













Let's go to dinner, kids, soup's ready!
Rocco, come on, soup's ready.














































































Round one!

Parondi's win with a knockout in the first round!






























































The war was just over, the place was bad.






There was a dentist living on the ground floor.






I had a very happy childhood.









It's the only place where you need a high school certificate.












































Things in the car, one, and ready.


That's what I need.
























That was the most important thing.







I have an important conversation with him.


Sorry, I need to go now, I'm leaving.















- Signor. - Yes. Pants are ready.
















That's life: you have good things when you don't need them anymore.




Goodbye, Signora. Thank you very much.























But slow, even very slow. He needs more training than those who aren't so gifted, okay?





Here's what you're gonna do: you're gonna train him and you're gonna keep an eye on him.











So morality is the first thing for an athlete.




































































Go through the yard, first door to the left on the stairs.

























You idiot, I'm just an idiot, ready to believe and help everyone!

What do you want from me?




































That's right, darling.













- Rocco. You all have beautiful names. - All right, sit down, we'll talk.









Somewhere where we don't meet someone we don't need.










To sleep with me, darling, it's worth it.











It's okay, you're very sweet.



It's nice of you to say I'm cute.














You could've waited until you found a new one.






























My dear boy, it would've been okay to let Vincenzo down.
















I'd love to, but send a transfer to my mom, there's no money.








Could have gotten conditional, if that criminal record was the first one.
























I feel bad in the big city because I grew up and raised different.






But only when I want and get what I need first :



















I haven't had much fun lately.



You don't have to be afraid. And you always seem to be scared.




































Come on, darling.






























































































































Well, Rocco's our first quiet, believe me.


Everyone knows she and your brother have a lot of love.






























Wait, I'll take the bike, I'll show you where it is.
























What do you want?










































Are you sick, Simone?









































He needs you, he's got you alone.
Yeah, Simone needs me, I know that.




You and I wanted to start a new life.























I don't feel good.
You know, I think someone's even worse.

He's much worse now.










He can't live alone, he needs a support.

I don't want scandals, okay?









I'm always ready.









- What do you want? - Come here.

















What's wrong with you, Rocco? Are you okay?














































Ciro, darling.



Ciro, tell me, tell me, darling, what's my fault?
Am I to blame that I brought my beautiful and strong sons to the city so they wouldn't know the need when they were on the ground, like their father, whom she killed?






Me, Rosaria, Signora, in such a big city, out of respect for my children!























Of all of us, I'm the worst.

























































You're the first time I've ever seen you.

Easy?

You know, I need the money.













I said I needed the money.


































- Come on, sir, I'm ready.
































I'm ready to sign you a promissory note immediately,








Okay, I'm ready to sign a three-month promissory note.












Checkey offered me a lot of money if I signed a contract for 10 years.


























































































If you're smart, guys, you can have another play, just as good as the old one.
Tell me, is your brother still messing with that whore or finding someone more expensive?








What do you want?







Look, you and I can start a new life, okay?


































Mom, are you happy?
Very, very happy!





To your success, my dear!













Life is beautiful, if you remember...

































Throws a rock into the shadow of the first one who's gonna pass by?

We have to make a sacrifice.





Now I'm happy.
Come on in, all your brothers are here, darling.








I was so happy.








I need the money, everything you've got, now!






























































And people should be happy, free, not slaves, but don't forget their duty.








Rocco is always willing to forgive, not always to forgive.






Some say the new world is no better.

















































Another cup of tea, darling.













- Do you need help?









































































It'll be your last breakfast here if you don't hurry.












Honey, hurry up, let me get out of here.
















































































- Yeah, honey. I'm listening.











I'm glad someone thinks it's funny.

- Okay, I'll have a little ginger.
- A little ginger.

















- What's wrong with him?


















Not in the last row.
I can only see from the last row.

Apparently, you need glasses.












After the first kiss, she'll be waiting for the engagement.

I never grab a bad bait.
I'm not getting married until I'm ready.














But you have to be as clever as those bastards.



She's a good girl, isn't she? Beautiful.












The old hag is standing, sniffing.
















Someone has to be the first.



























Everything's new.
It's not the first time this bastard calls me red.

I voted for them in the last election.











- Family life isn't bad, trust me.


Being married isn't bad. If you feel good about each other and don't put too much pressure on each other.





- You've been seeing her a lot lately.









I won't be long, honey.






You're covered in lipstick, honey.






























































































Don't do that, sweetheart.








- You'd be the first to say it.
















Like the good old days you told me about.







Give me some more tea, darling.





































































Burt, are you ready?





Say good night to your mom for me.

















































































I'm glad you came.























































Well, you know how it is? Not so bad.






































I didn't do anything wrong.

Leave him alone, old wallet.








































- Old cow.

























































- Clean the cards, Burt. Tea's ready.

Hi, honey. Come on in.








I'm glad.































Thank you very much.










Hi, honey.































We need to do something.
I'll... I'll try the last way.



































































- It's only gonna get worse.




This isn't my first fight on an equal footing.
And I don't think it's the last one.





I'm a six-foot stand that needs a beer cup.





Come on in, honey. What a surprise.






They must be very expensive.


























Look, honey, don't do this.



I'm glad you came.

















I've never met a beautiful girl like you.






















Don't go, darling, I'll be right back.







Bye, honey.




































- Good night, Arthur.
- Good night.

Good night, Arthur!
Good night.











You're the reason Brenda and I were in big trouble.

















And you said you weren't the type to get married until you were ready for it.


































I've seen you in a bad mood, but I've never seen you in a bad mood.
I want more from life than my parents, Burt.






Until we buy ourselves a new house, I don't mind living in the old one.

I want a new house. With the bathroom and everything.








This isn't the last stone I threw.
Come on, honey.
A hundred years before the birth of the Christian faith, which was destined to destroy the pagan tyranny of Rome... and to create a new society... the Republic of Rome was the centre of civilization.

And you are the first of the cities and the house of the gods, the golden Rome."























This one's not that bad.

























Beautiful muscles.






















Death fights will become when you're sold... and you'll become a laugh of the nobles... of those who know the purpose of a beautiful death.








Some of them get free... and become teachers of new gladiators.

















































































Rule number one:



Remember, hit first... or the enemy will beat you.









Everything else will be fine for a public sight in Rome, but here in Capua, we expect more... than a simple murder.




















Two very important patriots.

Although they're Romans, they're not important.


- How important are these Roman guests?







No, the best. But small cups.










Mark Licinius Crassus... of a noble kind... the first general of the Republic... father and protector of Rome... welcome to my home.









Here's the latest news.
























Do you have a lot of choices?









































Beautiful choice.








No, the most beautiful.




















Let them wear less clothes.













How else can you become a crowd lord... and the first senator of Rome?




When a slave is so beautiful, she shouldn't steal.















My first master taught me.





































She's got a lot on her mind?

Honey! You were honored to signal the start of the fight.

First pair:
















Take one last look, Spartacus.





































Rome's garrison is ready for protection.


We need to have a march tomorrow... in honor of Glabra.

You're not happy about the appointment.







































My dear Crassus, congratulate me.













































Go with the little streets. No fanfare or drums!






Your new owners bet on who dies first.














We already have wine, and we don't need bread!










- We'll have a big army.

Who can raise a bigger army than this?








They have the largest fleet in the world.













The last time I saw you... you were waiting to get to the arena...


































Notice that the worst tyrants are always skinny.






A small weakness...

















Even in the morning, I was happier than any rich man... and in the evening I became a beggar, without a penny behind my soul... except for these rags that cover my poor flesh.


















Since Crassus hasn't paid, I'll have the first vote on the bidding when she's caught and put on the market.









Only when you need to.














































What's wrong with women?

I know how to handle a knife as well as anyone else.













We need carpenters.















I need one viewer.

That's who I need.
































































































We'll give you as much as we need.









- When will the ships be ready?


When will the ships be ready?
My friend... when will you be ready?









In seven months, the ships will be ready.















Beautiful wine.










































































Tell them we don't want anything from Rome.





Their leader said that their hatred of Rome was so great that all they wanted was to escape from his domination.













































There's nothing new about "hero" behavior like that!















You were so happy.

I'm happy.










Why, darling?




















This is my first child.


















- Valeria, lovely food!
Okay, the little one put on the ground with the plowing goats.





















We need five years to train the legion.

























Do you want me or the garrison?











What's worse, betraying a friend or Rome?




Your new master.













First consul, all legions of Italy... repeal of senatorial supervision of the courts.







When the time comes, I'll be ready.















If you want a criminal, you're dealing with him.





















- My dear commander.







































































Mark Licinia Crassus... the first consul of the Republic... and commander-in-chief of the armies of Rome."




I promise you... a new Rome... a new Italy and a new empire.

I'm happy here, free among my brothers... may we have a long march and a hard fight... but it's better than being a rich Roman... snatching from food he hasn't earned... and surrounded by slaves.


















Beautiful.



New orders will be issued in a short time.





I need Spartacus.











I'm glad you're here.







I'm glad to see you too... 'cause only you... can give me a description of Spartacus's appearance.





When you went to my school with two nice ladies.






Beautiful possession of the dagger.



I see it's important for you to know that, Crassus, isn't it?


You're a bike, and I'm a little...













My dear, all-powerful Mark Lycinius Crassus... what if Spartacus is looking for you on the battlefield?


















No matter how many times we win, they... send new and new armies against us.
New and new armies...

































I'm sorry I came to congratulate you on one of the last ones, but there are rumors in the camp that the prisoners will be crucified on crosses.




















- Less than 40.


















But despite that, I think I've found something more...












I'm glad to hear it.


Evil tongues even say he's in love. For the first time in my life.
I noticed how he looked at her the first time he saw her.








The more... chains you put on her, the less she looks like a slave.


She's ready to give herself up to a real man... and it's annoying.







It's a great plan... I hope you're not offering to steal this woman!












It's always good to see you, my apprentice.












Tomorrow the last of these bastards will fight to the death... in my father's temple, sacrificed to the gods.
Like these slaves, your bastard will die... if he doesn't remain faithful to the new order.






First.











































I'm not interested in my new life.






I need your love, Valeria.














But the day he died... thousands of people would be happy to take his place.






















































Don't resist, and I'll kill you with the first blow.

- That's my last order!






















- Yes, my dear Caesar.







































Go, go... I'm happy for you.




















































As a sleeping pill, it'll do, but your new poison... I don't know...




Then you're gonna have to sell a flyhouse to your tank?








Our competitors, Toximit, are starting a new remedy!












No, dear Adelaide, you're never too much!












- Hello, my big one!












































- You need a house.



















































Ah, what a beautiful marriage!














































Isn't it beautiful?













Beautiful!





















































It's a pleasure.
































She's a beautiful life, an artist's life.














Monsieur's car is ready.













































No, no, I'm glad.














Put on your most beautiful things.



































To accept the king, I decided to dress like a Roman emperor.











- We're very happy.









You're very nice, and I feel like I can get right to the point.




















Beautiful thing!













I'm sure it's the most beautiful thing in the house.





To our happy meeting!
















Thank you very much.





Thank you very much!



















- All right, ready?
- Ready!


















Everything until the last nail...






























- She's a very beautiful girl.








- The old pig!























































The theater is a big family.





Beautiful journeys, first class on the next train, in a sleeping car.
The most beautiful castles, the big theaters, the mad public!




















That's very nice of you!














You have to eat well, don't you?

























- Beautiful ham!
- Yes. That's the last one.


And the ones we feed while they're still little.













































































































Monsieur Jourden is a very nice man!

















































- Ready?
- Ready!
















Okay, I'm ready.










Exchange first strokes.






















































Beautiful!




Our work scene will give you everything you need.




Act one.





















Hello, lovely cavalier!










Señor conspirator, you first!













































You know very well that my new insecticide is sleeping pills, and my "death to rats" is fattened by all the rats in the block.










Monsieur Duke, ready?
































Those who brought weapons to my father in the snow and under the smug, old soldiers...




























- Goodbye, my dear.
















They're gonna run away forever! Thanks to my dear Toximit!











































Yeah, 1,500 new francs.




























- Are you happy?










































On the road, behind the last house, to the right.


































"This afternoon, the inauguration of a new municipal holiday hall with the performance of the illustrious


Bomine and the entire troupe in a large world-class piece by Mr. Deplantan in Fajall, Mayor of La Faja-na-Iret.














- Well, not so big, but still.





It's important how it's said.


Isn't the wall ready yet?













Oh, Masilia, how beautiful you are!



























No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,





















Oh, my beautiful paste!






























My new dress!

- Great! Beautiful! - I'll start again.





A new wave!











































































Ready?







Rome is safe on the bridge!



































































































































I'm so happy to be home!




























































The other big trouble is that this terrible famine has given rise to parasites!









The last porcelain... ate a pig who no longer had milk.


































































































































Hello, Doctor. Glad you could make it.










- When was the last time you were in the village?

























































Honey, I'm sorry, I must have fallen asleep on the move.





























































And I burned a big hole on my best dress.

























I've been in love with them lately, don't you think?







- Miss Ogle, darling.

















Why are you so happy?




















Thank you, darling.
You made me perfectly happy.
I'm old enough to appreciate it.













Thank you very much.



















Good for God.


When my wife told me she was having a baby, it was the happiest moment of my life.

























I've seen an X-ray. It's a beautiful eczor.

We should be happy.
























































He's so handsome.

































At first glance, it doesn't seem to open, but if you do as I have shown, it will open.
















































Are you ready, Gordon?






It's very important to find out if they're good or if they're bad.



They need to be trained.





First, we need to try.



















Honey, your finger.


























































Or maybe they're new people.
All we need is time to do some research.















That's why we need time.



- They need to be isolated.





If you ban them, you will deprive science of the greatest opportunity that has ever been.





It's a brand-new development turn.





























I'm sure it's not a long time when so much is at stake.














































































What other evidence do you need?








They need to be destroyed.































The Russian battalion in western Urala is equipped with a new weapon.




































- You little...























- David, what do you need here?



























Yeah, but this has to be arranged.
I need a few days.








Good night, Father.
Good night, David.








- We're ready, Gordon.






And poor old Alan will crash into the nearest tree if we let him drive.



























































































- It's the first time I've seen one of these.













































































































































































- Girls, I'm first.















































You shouldn't have had lunch at the new cook's.

- We've got nothing, our lunch is as good.






- We're gonna hit the biggest pole, and we're gonna put it all on him.











- Come on, you've got an eavesdropping, you're in pain.
- Or maybe we're developing a new technology...



















- Oh, why isn't Anfiska beautiful, and why isn't our Elijah marrying her?
























Here's the job, you need an eye everywhere, you know, break up.







- That's right, little one, and fantasies.















- They weren't going to, they're learning new things.




- I hear people are developing new ones.






















































- Thank you, Maria Gavrilovna, goodbye.







The old maple, the old maple, the old maple knocks into the glass. Taking me and my friends out for a walk. Why, why...















































































No one asked him to help, it hurts.




- You want a bigger borch, Ilush?



- I'm first, first.















































































Don't ruin your hair! It's the new boss.








































- Girls, look, the first guy's coming.

























- Well, what does he want with Toshiki?






































- Nadyush, you're not ready yet.
















































- Mother Ver, front row, yeah, I'm coming, too.


















































































































































Oh, Mother Vera, I want to be beautiful.

I'm walking pretty down the street, and all the guys on the other side are crumbling.







- You're lucky, Katka, and people's happiness will catch their eyes.











Just calm down, really, I want to eat a halva, I want a carrot.


























































The fairy tale was made up beautifully to make it more fun to live.





Am I the only one who's the worst?














- It's important that you understand.






























The most expensive, within the sum.




Why, let it pop, little ones, they like sweets.














































For the last time, will you take it?

















































































































Man, I need that money.












They're always needed for something like this with me.



































The bright children's heads surrounded the big table.
The bright woman dominated the big oven.





























It's bad without a hostess in the house, no cleaning up, no accepting.

























































































































The first power plants were already under construction, Volkhovsky, Shatursk.















The napman parasites are ready to kill a man for being whole.


























You're gonna take more Urcagans into the house.

















































If you were able to come to Blina for a day, it would be a great wake-up call.




















What do you mean, she's bad?





- Isn't that bad?











































































Lovely man, I'd love to get married, but we have different faiths.














































And they won't need her.








































I'm saving Evdokim on a suit, the old one's worn out.



He got in first.






- No, it's important.
- No, it doesn't matter.



- He's the first.
So, what's the first one?
















Happy you, Natalia.












Such a good young man, such a good bouquet, and a nice name is Vova.









































On Sunday, our workers are going to plant a new plant.







Dear comrades!
We're planting the first boiler here today.
God forbid, not the last.

































































































Stolen a child, dear comrade Judge, husband and wife of Chernyshova.






So please, my dear comrade Judge, support me as a working woman, a proletarka against these landlords.



































How, Alexander Evdokimovich, do you live well or bad?















They were happy.















I want the feeling, the real and the big.


























































































Turned into someone's happy gate.











You've grown big.




































The scoundrel of the first stamp.












You weren't the only one growing up, darling, the others weren't.





On a business trip, he's a big specialist.
Did he fight, your big expert?













































































Comrade Chernyskov, we consider it our first duty to provide accommodation to our local human resources.

























In fact, there's nothing more important than making a good man.

























































































Does it really matter?


















The new man is part of the family.




















Lucky Lucky Lucky.
I wish I was as tall and beautiful as you.
























- Happy New Year!
- Happy New Year!



























The best thing you can do now is say good night to everyone.


Good night.

Good night.













































































































The general's gonna call you off, he really needs you.













































































































You can think very badly of me.






























































Listen to the latest news in the morning.














































































































Old?
No, for a man, he's not old at all.






























But understand, the baby needs a father.











With that kind of character, you'll never be happy.
I was happy!






















































































Sweet Sashenka, he never wrote you a letter, but he did today.




I'm happy for you. I can imagine how happy you are.



























My little girl, I know you love me.




















































- Sweetheart.

















- You've become unhappy. - No, I'm happy.



We're all very sick.


































I've heard those beautiful words already!











And I work just as hard as you do.
And I'm doing just as well as I do.
What do you live with? What do you care about?



















Communism is a beautiful word for you, and I live it.

- So why aren't you in the party? - That's the way it's supposed to be!


























I'll say, if you want my life, I'll give it to the people.

I'm a man, damn it, and I need the truth!




































That's what I needed.






















































- Come in, darlings.


Well, what are you gonna tell me? I read that today's presentation of your book. Are you happy?


There are things to do. And then what's important is the book.






Very good. I read it in a hurry, I have to read it again, but it's very good.

It's gonna be a great book. - Yes. I need to think about it again.
I didn't have much time to think these days. It's the only free days I've had in the last three years.
























You know, morphine makes things important.



You're gonna be a big success. Yeah.
























It's a beautiful place, isn't it?


One day, the clinics will look like nightclubs.
People want to have fun to the last.









Did you see how beautiful she is? She's being held here to empower the sick. He can't do anything, but she's beautiful.







I have to go, Tommaso.

I have to go.













I'll bet you instead of morphine, they give me distilled water.





























- Maybe this girl is happy now.


















- It's all set.

- If you need to get out, go.
















Yeah, they're taking off very high. It's beautiful.




- If you need to see someone, there's a cheap hotel nearby. - No, thank you.








Every millionaire needs his own intellectual.































Pontano, huh? I'm really glad you came.


We celebrate the winnings of our first races. He's good, my daughter's merch.



When you read your books, you imagine a man who's older, with a load of experience. - Have you read my books?








Poor thing's so cute!



I don't want him to have bad habits. And there's plenty of temptations!


And you've become even prettier. How did you do that?











Tonight's the first time in years you went out to the nightclub, you know?
Look at that beautiful pool downstairs!








- Look how beautiful she is! - Thank you. When she wakes up, she'll have the color of your lips.

































I think I'm one of your biggest admirers.
I read it three times. I'm probably your biggest admirer in Italy.


















Besides, she's beautiful.


As I told you, dear friend, it's absurd to talk about wealth today.



Because it's important for me to create something solid! That it's gonna be a long time!
Yes, darling, but everyone is capable of creating something durable. You...


- Still, you have to live, too.




No, I don't feel so important.










And I'm creating a future! Although I've had enough of the real one. There's so much to do!


















- No, too old.











Agree to get at least seven hits.




























- Do you really need love? - Aren't you?




- Bye, darling. Yeah.

Pontano, I wanted to propose to you. - I need a man like you.





























- I'll open the curtain and tell you a beautiful fairy tale. - Let's do it now. - Tell me.




I get worse.










But it was my wife who sent me to you first. It's the same thing.








I think we need to tell each other something more. Yeah, that would be natural, but...



















And I was very pleased with her. The park is full of silence, it's made up of noise.










Besides, my mother says that sitting at home all day and writing is bad for the skin.



I'm done looking at things, I don't have to write about them.










You don't need money.

You need a girl to start over.




























When I said to him, "Dear Mr. Hemingway, I like you, I'd like to visit you at your home in Cuba."






Money, my dear, never throw away.
Our time, dear Signor, is anti-philosophic and harsh. He doesn't have the courage to say what's valuable and what's not.
















At least that boredom would have ended and something new would have started.















- Offers me an important position.











He was a lot bigger to me.

How many days he's been sitting next to me sitting at a table to make me learn! I had no desire for it, I was so caught up in my little problems!







It was something new. I was so happy... I didn't listen to anything in the world with much pleasure.








I'd like to be old enough to spend the rest of my life with you.











All those books I didn't need at all.
















I saw something cleaner and deeper behind your face that reflected me. I saw you... in a dimension that covered all the time I had left. All the years to come and all the years I've lived before I met you, but I'm ready to meet you.
It was a little miracle of awakening.
To feel for the first time that you belong to me not only at that moment, and that the night lasts forever when I'm near you, in the heat of your blood, in your thoughts, in your desire, which coincides with mine.













Have a safe journey, Monsieur Pierre!





































Good night.
















A day or two, I'd be very happy.
The waterfront, the big tides. I'm always impressed with that.







Every year it gets worse.












































Big.






















































































Okay, here we go.








Have a good vacation, my little Martinka.

You're very nice.



My dear Alice, how is Jean Langlois?









































I'm old.
































































I came because I need to tell you something.

















































































First what?
Your first memory. Since you lost your memory.





I was calm, nobody around, I remember well.















































I was gonna say that if you wanted to, you could move on to the field you remember.






I'll tell you again, maybe once you were... happy. Pleasant memories?
















You're a very nice woman.









You're really, really nice.


















































































































































It's small, it's small, it's remote.











































































That's not good!



























And the names of cats and dogs are written with a big letter.







'Cause it's not hard, I remember it all the first time.
Here's a new answer, and I remember the old one.





The teacher will forget the old one, and I remember everything.










It doesn't matter who I am.




























































The car was driving, the night was beautiful, and I dreamed I'd come to the souvenirs at the clinic, like I'd have a white, light office.













































You, that's what, honey, go to Karatau, get a chair, a boar and a room.




















They come, they look, and they start fooling around.




- Thank you very much.




































I'll get you one, two.












- What do you got? Anything bad?























































































How am I gonna write 47 when I don't have to write, but decide questions?










All he knows is that 47 kilos and what kind of questions are there to ask? And why write questions? He doesn't know.












But my condition, the condition of your old teacher, you must understand.

I'm so old I can't teach anymore!






























































































































You wait here for me, and I'm gonna bring a little hairdresser out of the table right now.





















Am I the worst?













So you're happy.































































































































































































































And at that time before the landing, the first fuel gas with fuel broke through.







































The first flowers, the cocks.






























































I need to guard things.



Thank you very much.






Have a safe journey, Alenka!















We need to wait a few more minutes, a few more seconds,




























These whispers, which is worse than the silence you keep me in.
These days, which is worse than the death that we live here side by side, you and I, like two coffins, beneath a garden just as frozen.





A very beautiful woman.

Taking out this silence, these walls, these whispers, which is worse than the silence you lock me in.






































Whoever took the last card lost.













You're still beautiful.















You were slightly turned towards the big central alley. And they didn't see me coming.















You're half-wrapped to look back at the big central alley.










What if you make the first move?












































I said it didn't matter.
























But you have to do it on the other side to see that he's stopping her.





















































































What do you want from me?





































I told you to come with me.





Why does it have to be me?















Why? What do you want?




It was the last night, I guess.


































And I come to your apartment, and to your little living room and your room.



















Big, I guess.

























But I remember this room perfectly... and these white laces, among which you were lying on a big bed.






























But you know it's possible that you're ready that we're about to leave.









It's not true that we need separation, loneliness, eternal waiting.












Yeah, it's true, there was a big mirror right by the door, a huge mirror you didn't dare approach, like it scared you.








Look, what other evidence do you need?


































You see, my old picture.




















You need to rest.










As soon as the door closed behind him, you began to listen to the sound of steps in the small living room that separates your rooms, but you did not remove anything, nor did you hear the claps of the other doors.







I need you alive.















We have to get to seven every time.







You have to take an even number.


We have to change rows every time.
























So you'd like a new respite.










































No, you don't need anything.

You don't know what's come over you in the big living room right now...

You hope you didn't cause too much scandal when you screamed like that.
The one who's barely gone, maybe your husband, who you might love, who you're leaving tonight, even though he doesn't know yet, you've packed some personal belongings and prepared everything you need to change quickly.









Leaving you lying in bed in his room... he went to the small theater hall, where he took a seat in the middle of a group of friends.

You got dressed for leaving and you started waiting for him alone in some kind of lounge or a salon that you need to cross to your rooms...







At first glance, it seemed impossible to get lost here... through straight-line alleys, among statues with frozen gestures and granite plates, where you are now lost forever, alone with me in a quiet night.







































































































































The Commissioner is more important than my store.















You can't trust the first person you meet right now.






















I supplied the old Countess with coal.






















Nice watch.












My dear Martelly, that's not what happens in these walls.









That's a nasty job, dear Martelly.






















I had a smaller store for Via de Coronari.


- No, I'm telling you, the store is smaller.
























Patience, my dear Martelly, patience.









































Come on, tell me you don't need me anymore.

You don't need me anymore.
































We know you were the last person to see her... last night at her hotel in Thor San Lorenzo.







I've only met her a couple of times in recent months.














So you got money for a new store in Spain from Adalgiza De Matteis?

- What's wrong with that?


















Why did the Romans build such huge ships on such a small lake?



















These Romans had big creeks!


































Dear Martelly, you're a woman.






































- When was the last time you saw him?





You only needed me to make useful acquaintances.



















It's a very important decision.



Tired of looking at the same faces, tired of the same old friends.
















































She paid all my debts and most of the hotel went to her estate.




























She liked beautiful things.
Although she's been acting a little weird lately.
After buying the hotel, the first thing she did was fix this room.



She was so happy...












The thing is, I need the money right now.













This is the first room I've repaired here.

- Very nice.





















When I think of you and Nicoletta... I'm just happy.



























































The last thing you were talking about?




























































































































































































































There's a picture of you in today's paper. Big.









Sit down because of the old wallet.
































He was the first person to get a haircut on Marlon Brando.




























Look at you, it's a great job.
















































When was the last time you had sexual intercourse with her?



















































The last person who believed you.





































































You can't see, he's not well.
































































We are now treated as important gentlemen.





































































What if something's important?














































































When the lady first spoke to him, she hadn't had a watch yet.
























And first of all, I'll tell you about it.



































































That old punk?



Am I an old punk?

You have a new guest.



































Well... good night.
Good night.



You have beautiful hands, Marius.
And a nice face.




































"Dear son of Lord Goodwin."







I don't need anyone's pardon.



















But for you, I'm willing to clean the stables every day.









They're willing to do anything to get out of here.

































But first I have to go back to my cell.



























I need to see Lord Goodwin.










































All you have to do is run away from prison.



















I wish my corsars looked as beautiful as you.


It's an honor, m'lady.




Is that a bad idea?




The most beautiful sailor I've ever seen on a ship.

Beautiful.






















Captain, we are ready to perform our duties.






















































Go back to the cabin, you don't need to be here.

























They're always willing to sell themselves to the highest bidder.









It's an honor, Captain.







It's beautiful.






You're beautiful.


I'm a sailor, darling.
















Ready?
















No, darling.






Miss Elizabeth, it's good to see you, and it's an honor to see you coming.






Peter just found himself a new victim.







Is it that important?

You're the most beautiful woman in the world.

















Come on, honey, let's go another time.












You won't be the first...





























Our little Peter is turning into a real Goodwin.





























The leader must be a handsome young man, like in novels.















- You're beautiful.
- And you're very nice, too.

His Majesty Louis XIV's first dancer.





Do you have any beautiful dresses?



































































You're not happy, Mary.








Since you have won the maximum score, by His Majesty's gracious will, I appoint you captain of first rank, and I entrust you with the frigate of New England.
We need brave men who will put an end to the criminal activities of the corsars.


































































Raise your lovely hands.




You want my clothes?






























There are beautiful places in the garden.






























And I quickly took over the command of New England, along with the mission to defeat the pirates.
























The governor's got a big surprise ahead of him.



"New England" intercepted Captain Poof.





































The guns are ready.









































I'm gonna take you to New England closer to shore, but you're gonna act on your own.

Some clothes and a good knife are all I need.















All women need men.


















Good night, Grandpa.
Good night, Mary.





































































This beautiful creature must be enough reward for you.
But I'm giving you back the command of the New England.




















If all the women in the colonies were the same as you, I would have left old England soon.



Your wife is beautiful.









Hey, honey, what's going on here?





Last time I saw you, you changed in the ladies' room!






Honey, I'm sorry, but I lost my key.






- Come on, honey, you like me.

- Good night, Mr. Arbuck.














Honey, don't be mad. I won't do it again. I can also let you take those pictures.



Good night.











Good night.






Oh, here... you managed to whistle a nice nest.












Poor old cat.
























Nothing bad can happen to you there.


You needed something... ah! Phone....................................................


























































Always a pleasure.











































Oh, honey, I'm so sorry.








Oh, darling, let me see you!










































He's cute when he's sober, but... but as soon as he starts licking wine, she's a god, like a monster.




Beautiful.




You know, you're cute.









Dear Fred, I'm sorry.










































That's what they wrote in the book view "The Times" on October 1, 1956?







I'm gonna save it for something big.




- Nice car.

















But he wasn't crazy. Only cute, scattered... and terribly slow.






























Lucille, darling?





Ah, my dear.






- Good night.
- Good night.























- Okay. Hey, honey, your skirt's in the way here.




























Oh, honey, there you are.
Fred, honey, I'm so glad you came!



Isn't that nice?






Honey, I want you to call him and tell him what kind of genius Fred is.










































At the end of the day, I started a little bit of a movie trial.















Irving, darling, where have you been?
Mike, honey, I've been trying to reach you all day.



- Time, darling.











Honey, you're not worried about that, are you?



Holly, honey!




He's good. A dark, sweet, rich-looking man with a lot of passion and a lot of teeth.







- Wait a minute, darling...












But this is the first time I've been in a normal North American house.



- Of course not, darling.
- I'm glad.



















Anything important?









Meg, honey, you're getting boring.







- It's Paul dear.

























Sally, honey, stop.





You think Fred's cute, too, don't you?









"There's gonna be snowfalls in New Orleans this weekend."
Is it snowing in New Orleans this weekend?

I bet New Orleans hasn't snowed in a million years.























If that's what I'm talking about, you're only gonna make it worse.

Honey, don't, please.




Son, I need a friend.










































She was talking like a bunny, and she was ready to say something nice to everyone.







Look, son, I'll tell you, I need a friend because I don't want to shock her or scare her.







Oh, honey, but I have to go.




























Wait for me here, darling. I'll take the bag.

































I'll text him and tell him I need him.













Fred, darling, what a terrible thing...




I really need a drink.
- Fred, darling, will you buy me a drink? - Sure.














Old Sally Tomeyto...








Anyway, every Tom, Dick, and Sid do... thinks that if he invited a girl to dinner, she's gonna stick to his feet with a little fluffy ball...
In fact, in the last two months, I've been invited to dinner by 26 different bastards.






So, my dear Fred, tonight I made a very important decision.























I think we should have a drink to the new Mrs. Rusty Trawler...









I need money and I do everything to get it. So...



That's so bad.

















































Fred, darling, I'll tell you one thing...




Fred, honey, it's so good to see you.


























Isn't that beautiful?
Look, I mean, nothing bad can happen to you in a place like this.










I'm not gonna let you cash your check, but I'm gonna take a gift for ten or less.
















Last beep, look... for the ladies and gentlemen who have everything,








Well, he's very handsome, but... you know.

















If you tell me the initials, I think we'll have something ready for you by tomorrow morning.
Well, I told you it was a beautiful place.







Each of these boxes is filled with small cards.



































I think this place is half as bad as Tiffany.



















Isn't that right, darling?




































Don't be ridiculous, darling. Take the check.



When you find yourself a new writer to help you find the same addition as me.


































Honey, you know him... pal Meg Wildwood.

Now, darling, even though you won't believe it, he's not only attractive and rich, but he's totally crazy about me. - You're crazy.



























I don't need publicity.























I'm glad you came.


But I'm very, very happy... I guess I can see that.




Two in New Yorker and one in a funny little magazine.



It'll probably look... nice when it's done.

Jose brought the blueprints for the new ranch he's building.

Really, honey, I can't tell you how happy I am.

















Have I told you how happy I am?











It's a classic East Indian dish, my dear.


By God, darling, I did it to impress you...





They're gonna be dark, like Jose, but they're gonna have beautiful dark green eyes.





I'm trying to throw away the bullshit myself, and it turns out that, apart from Doc, Jose is my first affair with "not a bastard."






Come on, darling, let's eat. It's late.




































- Well, darling, why don't you start?





















Ready to connect with Mr. Breman in Hollywood.






- Glad to talk to you, kid. Varjac.



















I'll tell you what to do.











Thank you very much.










Listen, honey, did you find a plane ticket? - Sure.










Don't be stupid, darling.



What for, darling?














Forget me, beautiful child, and God be with you.





















Please, darling, don't sit there and look at me like that.




























Seems like a beautiful place for a guy as strong as you...














Well, honey, you're already in a cage. You built it yourself.



Now I don't need it.





No, no, I don't need that.


















































Don't worry about me.























There's something I need to do early.











Looks like you got a new car.

















Do you need a doctor?
















I'll give you a little less on the first day.
But it's only on the first day.






































Do you need money?








We need to make it faster.











































A man in the mood has to do big things.



























There's no need to give opinions.
























































We still need 2,500 yen.


You have to pay for the surgery.
















Bad.
















Good night.





























I suggest you rest more.














































You don't have to worry.






































You don't have to do that in front of people.



















There's gonna be a lot of new stuff.

















We need to think about the future.





















































And mother and sister need to be respected.










On the other hand, there are still thoughts and views in Japan that are inherent in the old society.




















I don't think that was necessary.

Now we need to talk to Kinta.
























Don't worry about me.











































































You don't have to worry about him.






























That's not good.

And you have to pay the hospital for 8,000 yen.














































I need to know what's going on with me right now.
Thank you very much.



It's a very important thing for a woman.

You need to think this through very carefully.



You don't have to think about these things.
































Don't take too long to think about it.
You have to do better than that.















And we need to take better care of him.









































As long as you can, I need a lot.



What do you want?






















































Thank you very much.



You're gonna be a big woman.

But Kinta's not a bad guy.



Yes, we still have to thank Ikeda-san tonight.




















No, there's no need for violence.



















We have big things to do.


























You don't have to say that.











Were you happy with foreigners?




Sometimes there's no choice but to leave.






It doesn't matter.















It's the last night, the last time.






We need to find her and get her back as fast as possible.















Thank you very much.

















Bad news!
Bad news!


















Don't waste your time.













Thank you so much for helping me deliver everything.










































And I don't want that $150,000.

Tonight is the last night I'm here.
Last night.
















This man needs to be taken to the hospital as soon as possible.


















You don't have to do anything else.


































Large

It's beautiful here.


























































































He rose above religious hatred and called upon all Spaniards, Christians, and Moors to stand up against a common enemy ready to destroy Spain.





























If you let us live, you'll get a big ransom.
You were ready to kill and you weren't?





































The dress is very beautiful.






There are two of my dearest men, my father and Rodrigo.























































- What do you want?



















I'm asking you for the last time.







You were ready to kill him.


















I killed your first warrior, Sire.

























Rodrigo survived the first attack!






We owe you a great debt.
You're my First Knight.





















Rodrigo de Vivar! From now on, you're our first warrior.




This is your first assignment.



Sire, this is our prince's first expedition.









Donna Chemena will be ready for the wedding.































This beautiful wine was delivered from Vivar.

All night long, you've been telling mistress how beautiful everyone from Vivar is.


It's such a beautiful place!




Good night, m'lord, m'lady.
Good night! And let this night...

Good night, m'lord, m'lady.







































My dad was old, and she was processing it!































































What do you want here?
I need to speak to you, King.
























It's hard for you to get here.





































































And you're the beautiful Chemena?







Remember the last time you slept in such a luxurious bed?




I'm so glad, Rodrigo.

What are you so happy about?






We started a new life.























Thousands of people need you.





I'll tell him how much I need you.








Sire, we have to take Valencia first.

Sire, we have to take Valencia first.







- We don't need such allies.

They're ready to fight for Valencia.

























Who says it's bad?













Why punish someone who has become Spain's last hope?











The King needs more than courage.























Sid sent a big squad against the king.










We're gonna need these warriors.




















































Sid needs your help to protect Valencia.

Tell El Sid we don't need his help and loyalty, and don't expect anything from us.


































She'll be the last.




















- That's all I need.
- But that's not all I need.




He needs to rest.






































































































































I need a small amount of money for a horse and armor so I can go back and stand up for what's rightfully mine.



















But I spent my last florin yesterday.





In that case, the city of Assisi would be happy if you were on our side.


















Looks like I just found a new comrade in arms.










































































































There's your big chance, Francis! Don't miss it!
















You'll be told what to do.






































Blessed with every sip of freedom in the sun, but cursed by the worst of all-- cowardice!























He's the most beautiful man I've ever seen!






























I'm glad I was able to help you get such honors.
I'll do anything for you.
In that case, you're tempting me to ask you a big favor. Please!

Francis Bernardone has been carrying his imprisonment for the past three months as noblely as you are now wearing your awards.







By the power vested in me by King Friedrich for this I love all prisoners!
Anyone who wishes to join our new army will be compensated for the time spent in the dungeon!








My dad ordered me to bring you some new clothes.










- Glad to see you know how to spend money.





Francis, you don't think you're a big lucky man.
I'm happy as long as I dance with you.











But you've always been so happy!
I'm happy to be with you right now.












Paolo... I'm glad you came.













- That first day, at your father's shop, I felt like I was getting a friend.






























- Is that an old fairy tale?



And when he left, he had two precious hopes, one that he had found a new comrade in arms and the other that he found favor with...








Dear God!











Well, there's nothing wrong with that, my boy.






































- The churches of San Damiano need stones!







- This is your old friend Francis.



















Something great drives this little man.



















































So she can turn away the man's love because she's not gonna be happy with her?






And you can get as much as you need, just ask.






















But you didn't think the Lamb's brother would be happier if you stayed with your mother?













We're very glad you're with us now!











And you know the church rule that explicitly prohibits you from creating a new religious order.








You're complaining on such a beautiful morning?






You need special permission to come in.









A new order?












New Order.












































But we need more than stones and prayer places.











































We're ready!












Claire, why have I only been able to see you three times in the last couple of weeks, and not once in private?
































































There's nothing so serious about Claire that you can't heal a happy marriage.











































































- God gives you peace, dear brother!



I need to get rid of my stink!












I know it's wrong to raise my voice against any individual. But there are those in your order who are willing to change their way of life for worldly convenience.







It's a mistake I'm happy with.

- You set such a fine example!





Today's a big meeting.




































We have a great need for you.





































































I'm willing to die... for peace.






Tell your servants to build a big fire.


My priests aren't ready to take your tests!









-... very big.








If people were more perfect, they would be less in need of compassion.










This is the first step.


























Beautiful black nub girl with saffron skin from the Far East, huh?




Are you the new Christ?


























♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪ They're trying to establish a new order.




























































If only you'd read the new charter!



























Ever since I rewritten Elias's constitution and ran away in this cave, I don't really need to see.


























Or clouds like new flocks of white sheep going after others.




















I'm glad.










Then I hurt him a lot.
















I see you, in my imagination... just as I saw you on the first day, so long ago when you came to my father's shop.














































She's so beautiful!












I'll be the first to watch.



















It's a lot of money.














- Yeah, nice words.








- You idiot! You should've been careful!




































We need a mule and food.































































- The mule for the old boat. Take it, good deal.
















A dynamite that's worth a lot of gold and that we need to trade before it's too late.










































It's the only thing that needs to be done.



































































You're so beautiful...











But I don't need money.



























We have to let the girl go.




We just have to let the girl go.
































































The one who's gonna turn first.


































Come on, dinner's ready!



















So the kids and I can be happy. But are we happy now?








































The creams of the German war machine, rested and ready, were to be on the edge of the attack.

But the only passage to Keros was blocked by two latest radar-controlled guns on the nearby island of Navarone.














I'm your boss. You've been working for me for the last 18 months.
It's nice to finally meet you!




It's your old buddy. Go say hello.














- Is it that bad?


It's important!




Anyway, we don't have a big bomb like that to punch that damn rock.








I know you did everything you could. There's nothing more to do.



I knew from the beginning it was hopeless, but I had to try.








You just need a transporter, there's a dozen people who know these waters as well.





























Mallory, this is our last hope.











You need to meet the team.











































We need to get someone to an island called Navarone.















I'm glad it's not my decision.






It would cost all of us less.










When will everyone be ready?












I think you need to know that Mr. Stavros is Colonel of the 19th Regiment.

- It doesn't matter. The 19th regiment doesn't exist yet.



Okay, if you're ready, Corporal.
Yeah, I'm ready, ready, willing.































































It's enough for him to call headquarters and you'll be sent home first transport, private, unless you give him the words to do what he says.
Okay, if it matters to you, I'll give you my word.






No, that's what we need.
I've been told you need an incredible boat, but it's a shame.
















It's a little monster, sir.



























You need a break?
Wouldn't be too bad!



I shouldn't have done that?















If you want to have another chat, sir, about this boat, I'm always ready.





























I was gonna ask for a transfer to another neighborhood to give me time to think, to be ready for him!





I'm counting on all he needs right now is to kill the Germans.




All I care about is that one day we're gonna wake up and realize that we're even worse than them.



We kept explosives, weapons and most of the ammunition.


Papadimos and Miller, you're the first to carry a stretcher.




















After the last time, I made a pact with myself:














I need medical attention.


































































They're giving up a lot of energy.

You just have to make a good noise.























































Too bad it happened to her before the Germans came, she was a teacher in Mandrakos.

















Sir, I'm sorry, but this is the first opportunity to talk to you alone.



























No, not bad at all.













Do you need help?


































































I need an answer immediately, or I will personally adjust this officer's tires.











































































First thing in the morning, we knock off the truck and get another car.







That we don't need guns.
I said we need to distract the Germans from a full offensive tomorrow night on the Turkish side.













He's gonna have to endure a lot before he tells you what you need.





























No matter how it goes tomorrow, you're gonna need it.
I'll be the first guard.


































































































One: we can leave her here.
But they might find her. And in her case, they don't need scopolamine.




























If we want to do this mission, we have to kill her.







You all know what to do.









You drove me to the point where I'm ready to use this thing and I swear, if you don't come up with it, I'm gonna use it on you.



I'll call you if I have to.








First of all, they're gonna search the guns and they're gonna find the explosives.








































The guys on Keros are gonna be happy soon!

Fresh air, good food, sports on deck, beautiful girls.


















They need intimacy, love, who will belong to them, and someone who will belong to them.
















No, they live in my country estate in Blye, a pretty big and lonely place.










They need more than an ego uncle.
It's not easy for them to have a governess.
They need affection and love, someone who will belong to them, someone who will belong to them.

I feel like you're exactly what you need.
Sir, do you realize this is my first job?












The children loved her very much, especially the little Flora.







Meanwhile, my nephew had to go to school and little Flora is being watched by my housekeeper, Mrs Grouse.
Help me, Miss Giddens, I really need help.




Just remember that you have the greatest power.



I'll do everything I can to make the kids happy.















You're my new governess.
I've been following the road, waiting for you.



I'd love to.
















- I think so, too, darling.






It's good to see you, Miss Giddens.
I'm really glad.











I had no idea this was gonna be so beautiful.













































Well, miss, I'm very glad you agreed.















Some people thought she was beautiful, and so do I, but she's not as beautiful as you are, miss.
He seems to prefer the young and the handsome.

















I'm gonna sleep in a little bed with curtains.
- That's nice.
- Yes. Mrs. Grouse wanted to give you a big room.
But I said, "She'll only sleep there, 'cause big rooms get bigger at night."

















- We must finish the prayer, my dear.




















You need to go outside, see what day it is.

Have you seen Miss Giddens, darling?











Oh, look, darling, this is where I'm photographed with my family.









- No, honey.


Yes, dear, Miss Giddens?





















I know it's bad.




























She's our new governess, Miles, and she's awfully good.
















I think you're too pretty for a governess.

Dear Mrs Grouse!






















I'm not gonna ruin his mood for some stupid old teacher.


Dear Mrs Grouse, it's cozy with you.


It's a very old house.








It's a very bad habit, Miles.















Miles, honey, you don't have to believe that.









Dear Miles, don't you see that I want to help you?



It's just the wind, my dear.

























You're too beautiful for that.

















Strange place, new responsibilities.
It takes time to get used to it...




















That's sweet.




Oh, yes, darling.



Yes, dear, but Miss Giddens said it out of courtesy.







He's very handsome and so big.
I think it's the biggest house in England.
Well, it's the biggest thing in the world.
Well, I don't think so, the biggest in the world, Flora.
And your house, where you used to live, was it big too?
No, I'm afraid he was very young.
- How small?
- Very, very small.
So small, you didn't have your secrets?














But I thought it was another little game and sleep.


We're ready!







































Are you saying he was very handsome?
Yes, yes, handsome, handsome and unsavory.




A little picture in a cracked glass medallion.
























Oh, honey.


Oh, that's disgusting, what an old and evil governess you still have.




























































































Miss Giddens, darling, will you sit over there?






















Know what, Miss Giddens, darling?














In the beginning, when she first came here, she was absolutely happy and always smiled.


























No, darling.




No, darling.































































She was bad, but... no woman could take it anymore.


















- Poor boy needed someone...


There's nothing wrong with it.







Tell me, were the kids happy?



























Oh, he's a very beautiful man, Miss.




Isn't fear worse than scandal?





Just remember, you have a great deal of authority.














We need help.




Dear Mrs Grouse, I know how hard it is for you to think ill of these children.


















If I want to convince their uncle, I need to know the truth, the whole truth.







I'm glad you said that.
















Are you ready, miss?





The crew is ready.


































































I wanted you to think of me as bad for a change.


























































How did you get here, darling?












- That's not true, Miss Giddens, darling?




















Easy, easy, sweetheart, calm down.



Quiet, darling.












Quiet, darling.










































All I know is Flora was a sweet, happy, innocent kid until you shoved her face in...


- No... bad memories!


















If you were my age and cared for as many children as I am, you would know that waking up a child is sometimes much worse than the worst dream ever.












































That's so sweet.









I can't read minds, my dear, I've already told you that.

















Oh, no, I saw her get worse and worse.





She was happy here... just like I was.


That you're very happy?

































No, my dear, you don't think I'm like other guys.

























































Shh, honey, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh!







Miles, dear Miles...























- For the last time, he's here!

















A couple of incendiary bombs and old buildings exploding like paper.
In Nuremberg, the old and new city separates the wall built by...











Well, here we are. A little old Germany.






















- Beautiful view, isn't it, sir?
Um, listen, Senator, I don't need any of this.





























You probably know I wasn't the first one, but the tenth of the candidates.





That's how it turned out that there were no candidates for this position, and it took a good look around Maine to get someone like me out.






















































































After World War I, he was one of the leaders of the Weimar Republic and one of the creators of the Weimar Democratic Constitution.






"Good or bad, but it's my home."












































Try a beer with sausages in the old town.






































Because he was always, even when he was young, a man of great intelligence.

















Others... have adapted to the new order.






National Socialists have introduced new laws, including violent sterilization of everyone who has been recognized as "a social element".


































Dr. Vic, you said that "National Socialists have introduced new measures, including violent sterilization."



























































































































- Don't do it, I'll do it.










When the summer comes, the garden will give you great pleasure.











Your Honor, did you need anything?




































Your Honor, we're just little people.



































According to the order of the first court, such documents are not subject to inspection unless certified by independent experts.







































































Please read the last paragraph.





















































































































































- Nice to meet you.




































There's something to see in the Old City... finally, the museums we're trying to rebuild.
Oh, by the way, concert, piano concert next week at the old opera theater.




























In fact, I'm sure there are even those who are ready to release all the Nürnberg defendants immediately. All of them!

















We see what a beautiful country it is.
Very beautiful.




We're easily forgiving and quickly forgetting the bad, we're giving another person a chance to make amends -- that's what it means.

Your trouble, Colonel, is that you are prepared to sue the entire country.













































Now we have to stick together.






Look, Herr Khan, there's been some terrible trouble in my life, but the worst thing that could have happened to me is to be in a company like you.






























This song has very beautiful words.




















You must be a very important face.








Until the last year, I thought it was an advantage until I lost the election.































She was a very beautiful woman, very thin, even delicate.







































- I need to talk Hoffman into it.




















Did you see the photo studio on the first floor?
It's no big deal, but for us, it's the beginning of a new life.























































Julius Schreicher sat in the front row.


When I learned that Emile Khan was the public prosecutor, I realized that I had to expect the worst.































































































It's a Buchenwald oven. It's a sign of last-minute efforts to get rid of the bodies.



























































How beautiful...














You know... the last few days have meant a lot to me.



It was during World War I.






...a rapidly ageing lawyer and a beautiful widow will overcome all their contradictions and travel by land or sea.























I asked that he be given this last honor-- sentenced to death.








Dan, we need to forget if we're gonna move on.
















The secrecy of operations, the location of the camps, the restriction of communications in the last days of the war, when mass destruction passed over a million times, all prove once again that the prosecutor is not telling the whole truth.




















































































































































Yeah, I had to say something in the courtroom that still pissed me off. Why would I do that?











































Worse than that, we rule on fear.







And how did we, when we knew this parable, know that it was a lie and even worse than a lie?





















But one day we decided to look around and suddenly realized that we were in even greater danger.

Your Honor, I would be quite happy to remain silent throughout the process.
I'd be quite happy to look after my roses.




He even dared to assume that an old Jew had slept with a 16-year-old.




























Friedrich Hofstetter is a real German who knows that an order must be strictly followed, sent to sterilization, as if the numbers were standing in front of him, not men.






















































We need the help and accommodation of the Germans, but sentencing the leaders of the nation to long prison terms is not the best way to win their favor.















Defendants, you have the last word.






That is why the West needs us as a pillar of struggle and as a pillar of culture.














Dan, we need to go through a lot of stuff. - What do you got there, Dan?



























































That's what her people do and that's what they're willing to defend, to defend when it's the hardest, when it's almost impossible.
Now, in the face of everyone and everyone, we want to say that it is we who stand ready to defend our judgment--
We are ready to defend the truth, the justice and the invaluableness of every human being.









































He said it was very important to him.































Herr Janning, that's what happened the very first time you sentenced an innocent man to death.




























Is that eye a little smaller today?

What an expensive gift.










































Last time I saw you was at Rocko Golf Link.








I owe him a great debt.

















Big OK!








OK, OK. Large OK
Beautiful.
I need a toast for a toast like this.






















































































I don't get it, he's been coming out a lot lately.


At the New Osaka Hotel.




















The professor's salary is awfully small.



I'd love to, but the train tickets are very expensive.























It's too bad.

A small firm can't compete, can it?

- The last one?









The old master often comes out. Yes.


He's been acting weird lately.











































Isn't it ready yet?












No new rice - no job











We wouldn't have met that day if I'd been on the first tram.







He's getting worse. I miss the old days.




Those beautiful snowcapes and chasing fireflies.















































Are they small for sharks? Yeah.
















Doesn't matter.
















She's his old love.
Old love?









Dad took the old one.









Yes. She must be his old love.



We have one problem worse than the other.































What's wrong with serving in Arayashiyama?







I'm going to Kyoto to consult an old friend about our business.






That's too bad!






































Didn't I have another father when I was little?







Maybe it doesn't matter.

And now I'm big.









It's important to ask.









































Arayashiyama must be beautiful at this time.



































I think it's a beautiful party.































































Good night.




































Does the old owner have a heart problem?











The wife of a gentleman from Osaka belongs to the old Master...
The old host is a foster son.












Have you been busy lately?




















It doesn't have to be, but we're building a new plant.















I'm glad...
I'm so glad he's okay.
I'm so glad.





















It's hard to run a small company.



You can't win big capital.
My dad would've wanted it to be the old one, but it's pretty questionable.




































Any new relationships?
No, nothing new.







If I marry him, the family will be calm, but it's not that easy.






















I'm still happy, though the others feel sorry for me.









This is exactly the last time.






Are you ready?
Are you ready?
Are you ready?
Are you ready?

Are you ready?

Are you ready?

Are you ready?

Are you ready?

Are you ready?
















Too bad.



























When a man falls in love at first sight...
When a man falls in love at first sight, it's serious.
































I don't know. Dad's bad again.
That's not good.


Daddy's sick again.




















Not as beautiful a day as you thought.






































Bad.

It'd be better if a big company took over and I got a job there.



















You should have a happy life.

















































Yes, but new lives will succeed in replacing those who have left.



























































When you were 17, you were a great pianist.


















Wrong word. I'm happy!
Very beautiful.




















Cecile, life is beautiful!








I'm starting a new life!




It's small, but it's very powerful.











































































Dear Albertina, see you tomorrow night.














It's really good to see you.


Our dear scientist!













































My beautiful angel! You never get in the way.
















"Eagle and student" is a beautiful book.
It's not beautiful, it's adorable!
























Don't tell me it's beautiful.


It's very important to use the right words.
























































I'm gonna move the bad sets, the ugly costumes, the bad dancers, but not that horrible music!







It's a beautiful Marquis!








Anyway, the women here are beautiful.




















Sweet Albertine, do you know many drug addicts who are proud of it?













I'll keep my word, but you'll get worse.



























Orpheus leaves the one he loves, leaving the virgin Eurydice in the most beautiful city in the world!










We forgive beautiful women in front of the mirror and blame smart men who love to listen to themselves.














And you came? True, it lasted a week longer, and I need 200,000 francs. Yes.






6th floor, but beautiful stairwell.





- Isn't it beautiful? - Fascinating.

















Honey, if you want, you can come with us.










Venice is a beautiful city.








































































Dear Richard!









Albertina, I'm so glad!










Albertina, darling, I'd love to introduce you to Grandma, a lovely old lady who died too early and you'd get along very well.
















- It won't be ready until tomorrow.




































My lovely nereid.



You're little Eve.









Albertina, you're very beautiful.







The poet beat me in his arms, but alas, the traitoric nature forced him to end up with sweet, gentle phrases of this beautiful attempt.













How wonderful it is to be like a masterpiece!
And it all started in a new way!












You know, honey, thanks to you, I've become much more educated in the last few hours.


Our sweet Stendal...

Oh, sweet Albertina! You have made me a true literary expert.
I'm so glad!










I'm sure most women give this little one much less weight than you do.

Here's the story of my crazy nights, Cecile.








Sweetheart, sweet Cecile!

How nice of you to call.






Sweetheart Cecile, I wanted to ask you a question just out of sympathy for you.











You know we're always happy to see you.
























Sweet Arkady...
It's a shame to spoil a beautiful carpet worth 87,000 francs to believe that I'm drawing.














Maresa's new novel at Juliar is always an event.


The new novel is called "Provincial."



















Your books have a big role to play in your senses.

Sensitivity is very important to me.

















So, the new book of Didier Mares will be published by Juliar...






















"Dear Marie-Lora..."



"Dear Marie-Lora..."













Last shot, like a suffering animal.
































































































Good night.















Sad, sweetheart, it's a luxury.















Sweetheart, you're the queen of eggs. - You'd be married.






















At a time like this, we'd be drinking one last drink.
















You're young, beautiful, chubby, healthy.

















His time was very expensive, so the drinks had to be drunk and paid for by the time he let him in.






















You treat me like I'm the first person I've ever met.






















It means we're a little girl who needs to be cared for.




























Our sweet Albertina!





















It's important to me.


It's worse, it's not elegant.















I'm already sick.
















You're cured, you don't need a doctor anymore.






Honey, how long will it take you to spend in Paris to finally understand him?


















The play we had the honour of rehearsing in front of you was written by Marcel Ashar.

































There are more important things in life than vanity.

We'll live in a house with a big garden where I'll be calm. I need green. For you, all these late walks will end.







Yeah, yeah, honey.








It's exactly what I wanted. What beautiful curtains!




















You're just a little Gavros! What a beauty!



I'm talking about my alimony, and you're saying, "I need green"! What does that mean?


And the green means I need a simple woman, as opposed to you, and children!













If it weren't for her, my dear, I'd be the last to know.


























While you're packing, I'll stop by my lovely cousin.

Dear Didier!


The first copy is for the author's friends, with a gifted inscription to the entire family.












- What happened, darling?



That our sweet kid stole...

Isn't that right, sweetheart?










Florence is expecting a baby, a little Bolshevik.



































If she ever changes her mind, tell her it's always good to see her.







- Have a good trip.


















- That's cute!

You'll lose your job and you won't be able to find a new one.
















You don't have to think, you have to act.




Not a big loss.


I'm sick!



























If Michelle were here in Nantes, you'd be the first to know.









The first thing a son would do was go to his mother.













































That's not good.












































I shouldn't have.












Bad.












The book is in great demand.







She needs a dictionary. Franco is English.







I agree, but I need to order.



















I'm happy to help you.

You don't have to bother yourself.





- I'd love to.







You're the most beautiful girl.















It doesn't matter.

















We need to get the kid to school. I'm late.







I'll buy you a new one.























But I was willing to give my right hand that it was him.






It was beautiful.
People seemed so happy.

















You need to get married.






Jeanne knows how to live... how to kill time with her mascot.










Find new friends.

Anyway, everything's fine.































I'm so glad.















It's good to meet you!













I have to go.








We need to get him to school.























We'll have to leave in two days... on Saturday.















I need a day to think.






























That's so sweet of him.



But is that necessary?






You have to say it 50 times.
















































I have to go.





She's beautiful.







































He took the last one.






























I'm still a little girl.




























I need to rehearse.







School is important, isn't it?




















































































I had to rehearse and pick up the kid from school.






You always have to look attractive.


- That's not good.













And then we'll find a quiet place.



























That's what it takes to work.


The last time I saw you, you were braids.























And you had to make a living.














Sleep, darling.









But only the child they've been waiting for is truly happy.













I was happy.








At first sight.










He was so cute.



































But I was happy to meet you.

















First love is so strong.





































A leather briefcase with a pen... that I need to carry through customs undetected.



Why do you have somewhere to look for what's under your door?





Is life beautiful again?



He needs to go to Amsterdam and... Johannesburg...










This morning, all people seem beautiful to me.














































Do you need money?
No, you don't.
























You're not very happy.









And you can call it love at first sight.







Still, I want everyone to be happy.





























For a whore who's gonna go with the first person you meet?





There's no need for an explanation.

















- I don't need him.












































- I didn't do anything wrong.


- He was so cute.




I've learned new words.



























We just met, and our first lunch is goodbye.








She lives in memories of her first love.
First love is very strong.









It's worse.











Why does he say that first love is very strong?


Because what happens for the first time rarely happens again.



So, you don't have to lose her.













I needed to marry someone like you...








I have to go.

There's still a lot to do before we leave.





Have a safe journey.












Yeah, first love is so strong.


But my first love is long past.






































Maybe you don't care... but I don't want you to think badly of me... as a prostitute who's willing to... run after the first person you meet.


















Only your wishes matter... and no matter how much you pay for them.










Don't be in a hurry.































Never have to argue with the kids.








































































If you need us, we're always here.













Goodbye, darling.









































































It's a beautiful day!
I heard a new type of bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.






How beautiful.







Tea's ready, Shinezu!











In addition, the enemy used a new and most brutal bomb, the force of which brought untold destruction, killing many innocent people.

















































































Akiko's still so small.
It's a lot worse for a widow than she... to spend her life in a shaky temple.




















You don't need parachutes right now.

















Good night.






















But it's very expensive, so I can't buy it.











My grandfather had a bad hearing.















What's wrong with that?


















































That's sweet.
















Although I don't have the money or the house, I promise I'll make you happy.





But... my first marriage was a failure.










But Mom was so happy.

Our family has been very supportive of his temple.
Perhaps they expected to receive a large dowry.





















































You've done a lot of good.






But it was your first marriage, and I'm very worried about you.

We're husband and wife now, so we'll be happy together.













































You're the happiest.





























We're so happy.























































I'm happy to hear it.





























The new owner's gonna tear it down today.























































It's a beautiful piece.












I thought Ichiro would be happy.

It's more important to buy milk than a toy.


His ears are more important than milk.





No, I'm very happy.







Thank you very much.







When our first child died, I wanted to die, too.
I didn't think I'd ever be happy without him.



















♪ Pine spread its branches over the wall of the black fence ♪ ♪ There's a beautiful figure there ♪ ♪ hair ♪ down ♪ ♪ You should have died, Miss Otomy ♪ ♪ Even the gods don't know you're still alive ♪







































































That's too bad, you missed on the way.
Thank you very much.






























I can't scold him when he's bad, or praise him like a... ordinary mother.





I thought so, too, when you were little.







































Ichiro, dinner's ready.





























































































Ichiro, friends are the most important thing in life.
Bad boy like you doesn't have friends.



















Learning to build a healthy body is... an important part of your learning.




























Beautiful.

























































Passengers, please be ready to land.


























Mom said he'd be ready tomorrow morning.

Here's the pay for the last job.











Mom's doing a great job for a small price.













The important thing is that we're together, alive and well.




It's not gonna be good for our neighbors, but we can't afford a gas pipeline.



Your mother is a big help.




She could have been a great tailor if she had studied.





























I'm glad.

































































Ready?








































































But what's important in life is money.

You can cut us out of your life, but you will always be my dear daughter.

























Although I don't know if we're happier.
Are we happy?

I feel like I can hear when I'm home lately.








We worked hard to build a happy life.






Since we've been happy, we have to help others to be happy.


I feel that God made us happy because we're deaf.

We're ready for that now.

I'll be so happy when you do.





















Then I'll prepare a big holiday for the end of next year.















Honey...




























We look back on these happy days.




















Grandma told me an interesting story... from my childhood when I was a kid.



















Thank you very much.
















There was a beautiful spring day outside the window, a special time of year for bachelors.



As far as I know, the old proverb that a bachelor's life is so... agile and careless is completely wrong.


It was quite clear that my pet needs someone.






At least I was willing to do my best.

However, I had an unformed idea... about what to look for.














































Pongo, you old fool! Oh, my God!









Follow me, you old traitor.














Look what happened to my new spring dress and hat!




















Perdita, darling, how are you feeling?
Oh, of course, darling.


[ Pongo ] Ah, there's Nanny, a beautiful cook and a housekeeper.


Roger, honey, it's time for tea.



♪ You like my new song ♪

Church, first the melody, my darling.


















- Anita, darling!










Where are these little predators?






Cruella, is this your new fur coat?
All I love in the world is this, darling.



Oh, I'd love to have a nice fur, but there's so much--
Sweetheart, plain Anita. [ Laughs ]




Then it turns out you've got your little spotty friends, too.

I'd say... such beautiful skins.



- You won't forget to tell me, will you, my dear?






♪ But when the first shock comes ♪















That's what she needs here.





I was so happy at first, and now I'm--































You old bastard!


































Tell me how much you want for everyone, my dear.












I'm willing to be more than generous.































My dear, you were incredible.




Perdy, darling?

My good old Roger, he kicked the damn thing out.








He's gonna take that nasty old conocrad.






Look at him sneaking out, you old coward.
That dirty old Dawson!
You cirrifying old bastard!











Calm down, sweetheart.





























♪ Happy dog, dog loved, dog Crunchy in every house ♪




















Lucky, you little bastard, let's go.











Okay, so there's no one left at home but this silly old cook.
















A new law has just been passed in Parliament.




















Gorace, son, I really don't think we're welcome here.







Good night, baby.























































Anita, darling.



















Anything, but on my list of suspects, she comes first!


- I don't know, darling.



























- Pongo, you old fool!




















































But there haven't been puppies here since Nellie last woken up.










































- It's an old Tauser from Weisermarsh, sir. - [ Dog barks ]






Old buddy in his own person!








- Must be something important.





















In old de Will's estate?











Or... maybe the old buddy sniffed something out!

They say that this old conura is enchanted, and all that stuff.





















































































When you get to Wesermash, you'll find the old Tauser.



































Everything needs to be done tonight.


















I don't care how you kill the little bastards, but to do... and now!





















Yeah, just think about it... old fucking Fonswater, it's like this.



And now we invite our last member, meet Mr. Percival Fontswater.


So, who's gonna ask the first question?































Then we could finish our little game.
I'll have to say good night. I'll see you next week... at the same time on "What's My Crime?"




































































































































































I'm ready, Captain.





























We'll find the little bastards even before next Christmas.

And keep your eyes on the road!




























- Yes, darling.























Raleigh, honey, wait your turn.



They're so cute, aren't they?


- Oh, thank you very much.







You need to rest and don't worry about anything.





































But we have to hurry.











- Patch kicked me first.
- It's Lucky who's kicking first.
























- I'm ready.








We're gonna fool this stupid old lady.




















































































They're all here, my dears.

















Ah Pongo, you bastard!



- We'll buy ourselves a big one out of town.




























































































First, we mobilize people, weapons, and food supplies.










It's bad!





































































You don't seem to know how powerful this little hand can be.






























































































I want you to do an important job.




























It's an important assignment.

























But I'm glad it was you.
























































I need more than two measures.
























But since we shared a nursing home, I'm glad you remembered me.


I'm ready to celebrate my own name.












































































We worked hard to prevent the worst from happening.










































When I saw how committed you were to your cause and willing to sacrifice your body for it... when I saw that you had not shed a tear when I learned that your sister had been murdered... as a man, I was ashamed.











No, we don't need to ask you anything.






I don't need any intel from the ninjas.






So you want intel from the ninjas?




















































I'm glad.

There's a big problem here.






















































































From the Princess's Daime, his father's old allies Hideyoshi, to those who fought on his side in the Battle of Sakigahara... were called to Osaka Castle.






































Where we met each other the first time.





























































































You represent Toyotomy's loyalty... and at the same time you sent me under this mask to kill many of his old loyal vassals!





I've come here ready for what's gonna happen.





























































































The Eastern Coalition has made great strides in the offensive.






















Are you saying you're ready to continue?
































On January 22, the first year of the Ganna era (1615), the Armistice Agreement was signed.
You've made great progress on the Horai Bridge.



















































- Do you need me, Captain?


Do I need an escort in this dark, suspicious place?























Morgan went back to his old craft... piracy.


It can be done... if we can gather some of my old officers who served with me in the Royal Navy.
















Come on, little thief.

































Nice to meet you.
















I need your talents.










































On an old ship with half a hundred men to take over the pirate kingdom?


"The Mermaid" will be equipped with new guns and filled with gunpowder.




There won't be a big reward.




















I knew people who had less.


You can't tell me from a beautiful lady.



It takes more than silk to be a lady.
































The on-board guns are loaded and ready, Lieutenant.





































Not bad for a start.


























Or worse, it won't drown.






































A piece of chicken, my little dove?

Sweet baby... lady, when she drinks, she keeps her glass like this.


































































Well, my little dove... we finished our last lesson at the most intimate steps of the minuet.

















That there are other people in the world who need to be thought about except themselves.









"A beautiful lady..."





































































































But to break Morgan, we're gonna need more than a mask.




Just because I'm a lady doesn't mean I'm so sophisticated that I need to be locked up every time you do your homework.






So, I'm ready to help if you don't mind.







Do you like big muscles?


































Well, I think we're very happy to see you in Jamaica, Bart.







Beautiful.

It's worth more than money.



My mother was a beautiful woman.






















I really need skin.

















Captain, your ship was the first to get through Morgan's blockade in a few months.




We were ready for that.


But Montbars, Barrakude, got a lot worse.











- I think it'll be faster if you divide it between the people who need it most.


















If I were you, I'd like to know more about him before I trust him completely.
















We'll start selling these goods first thing in the morning.





You're no longer needed, Thomas.


Beautiful.



























You were unconscious, darling, but the doctor said you'd be fine when you got some rest.







You're very nice, Lady Margaret.








What a beautiful necklace.










I'm glad.






























































One gold ring with ruby... 90 pounds... 27 rolls of silk at 22 shillings... 100 large barrels of beautiful, Canary...








This is the last load.



To lose more wealth?









































Always happy to help the lady.

And I love the new London expressions.






I hope they're as ready for battle as you are, sir.













- He's a wonderful man, Meg, and...























Are you ready to confirm it?



Are you ready to file an official charge?









And Mr. Randolph will provide ships, requisitioned by the Royal Crown, ready to sail to Tortuga tomorrow morning at sunrise.
I still don't like this, but I'm willing to do my part, gentlemen.






- It's all set.







I knew your little reshuffling into a lady would become unconvincing.












You'll be happier if you follow him.























Tini, make sure the entire team is ready on the first signal, okay?














































I need volunteers.



















It takes more than the devil, Morgan.
We need an angel to get any of us out of here.






I'm not ready to be a governor's lady... or any lady at all.



















Jamaica is losing a beautiful lady.

































This is the first time I've ever seen you in this suit.










Drive along the wall all the way to the end... there's a little gate, it's not closed.



But I'm warning you, if I meet a beautiful Marquis tonight, you're gonna get yourself killed!




Excuse me, I think I'm the last one here.

























- It's the first time I've heard that! When my father died...





















The last two months, Monsieur de Kerloken did not leave his room.
He couldn't even sleep last week! His heart disease has made terrible progress. All he could do was... sit over there in the chair.






When he needed something, he called Martha.

































You didn't have to follow the whims of an old fool!

























Elyanna soon had a lover. Young and beautiful Chevalier.























Micheline, darling, you're a genius!

















He seems nice and harmless.











So, darling Guillaume, how's the stash?



























































Let's forget about them and go on a little trip.













































































































It's all set, premiere in three days.


































But now you're a big girl.












Now let's imagine that the visitor is entering the first room.
The first indicator is activated.
...you put the first entry and turn on the dynamic in the first room.
And now the visitor enters the second room, the second indicator lights up, you turn off the dynamick in the first room, you put the second entry and you turn on the dynamick in the second room.
















Are you taking the old one again? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,



















Even worse...












































I mean, if the series of accidents goes on without the suspect being present... whoever stays last gets it all.









For the law, the first death was an accident, the second was a crime of jealousy.











































Monsieur Prefect, it is an honour to welcome you to the general rehearsal.
I'm very happy, too, madam.












Gilles, the young and beautiful Chevalier, the lover of the beautiful Elyanna, the same hour came.












The Count breaks out the last door.




































These saddles are old, they're falling apart, it's bound to happen sooner or later.



At first glance, I'd say nothing's broken.



















They say it's beautiful.





Really? My dear cousin...

Don't go, my dear Guillaume.




































For the inhabitants of the small towns of Lombardia...


You get up in advance... and drag it to the last minute.















What do you need it for?

















But I had to eat, didn't I?
How much do you need?










































I'm happy to help you, Signora.













What's the most important thing here is the exam?


























































- Are you ready?








































































Beautiful.


















It's my first job.
Dad says big companies don't pay a lot.





























- We need to get out early.



















Call the first candidate.










































- That's where you put the money. - I put it down.






























I have to go to San Ciro.
If you have to go, don't be shy.





I have to go.










New words...



New words...





I was trying to find new words...




















































- They're happy.





































You'll see, it's a lot quieter.







But we don't need any employees here right now.
































- New courier.








Everyone here has a bad habit: now it's all urgent.

You could sit and warm the chairs all day... but you have to go outside and get some fresh air.












Dear Don Luigi... would you lend me a cigarette?
How's it going, dear friend?



























Old friend of our poor uncle.






















Or worse.



















- New employee.

We're like a big family. Goodbye.

































































They don't need employees right now... but they promise me a seat as soon as it's free.





And I'm having lunch on the first shift.

They're having a New Year's Eve.







And merry Christmas.




The latest news.
The Prime Minister wishes everyone a happy New Year.





Even for New Year's Eve.









- Nice hat for you.




















































It's New Year's Eve. Congratulations.







He's a big original.



















During the next dance, a small cloud... will slowly swim past the searchlight.

But remember, everything needs to be done quickly.



















Friends, we finished the old year.

An important message.
















































I'll visit a friend. Old friend.

Dear Meryl, it's good to see you!
















About the atomic bomb! There aren't many important topics!

It's very important.
The cancer crawls on the bait very slowly. As soon as they're done, we need to raise the net.










Can you believe he's gonna be on the front page?


























It was really nice meeting you.






Beautiful thing, Mr. Prime Minister.








































































































































It had to be done out of the blue,

























A collective suicide with Wagner's music... a beautiful end.
I'm glad I made you happy.



Beautiful evening, Mr. Prime Minister.
Beautiful.
Yeah, it's beautiful.



















































It's as important to me as public affairs.






































There's a new O.R. at Coschen Hospital.
















- It's still got to be measured!


















































In this case, the pure sky is a great tragedy.







I need to think.




































I have found once again that electoral concerns and personal problems are not as important to you as the interests of the country.













We need a shift.












































































I mean, it's great that you're taking such care of yourself.













It should be noted that of all the President's recent interlocutors who have visited the palace since the beginning of the crisis, Mr. Philippe Shalamon is the only one who has not yet chaired the Council of Ministers.




The President wanted my opinion on the composition of the new government.

But what matters to me is my party's opinion.














































All these deputies need to be thrown into Sena.















He's very sick.























































What can a united Europe bring to our economy?




Our livestock population can meet the needs of the majority of the population.

The emergence of new economic partners would lead to increased competition, as Mr. Beaufort believed. And in my understanding, it threatens us with chaos.





Prime Minister Beaufort, discussing French hegemony in the context of a united Europe, is simply dreaming of a new term.
























Before I object, I wish to thank the Government for the economic and social achievements of the past months.



The idea of a united Europe, though not new, is beautiful.









































































Mr. Shalamon worked at the bank most of his life and thought about her, too.

We care more about France!









He's going to be offered by the new government.













She found new markets.
They had to be mastered, it was her duty.
We've tested new types of weapons.











- I was ready for that line.



























He's been advocating disarmament, and his family has been producing world-renowned machine guns and machine guns for decades now.
















It's important not only to sound good, but also in time.



























It was ready for that.



















They're gonna steal a pen, they're gonna have to buy a new one every time.












































































































Because there's something worse than betrayal: stupidity.








Your grog's cold, I'll make you a new one.














































It is precisely that a statesman who has reached great heights sacrifice his ambition and personal interests and become a prisoner of the public good.


I think it's the first job to be appointed to the Ministry of Finance.
















- Are you okay?


















As long as there's more important things.


The expansion of the economy, entry into international markets, the first step towards which the customs union will be involved.







I'm ready to discuss it with you, but I think a devaluation is necessary.



I want my assignment to be the beginning of a new alliance.





















- No worse than the others.
- No worse than the others?

You wish your home to the ruler as well as the others.























































After 10 years of a happy marriage, I was a widow and never thought of a remarrying.










- Nice to meet you.























- Even a nigger needs a woman.
















Your house is the biggest.























Good night, Auntie.


















Good night.
Good night, sir!






















































I don't need this!






Thank you very much!























I'll always be happy to help.
Thank you very much.































Wouldn't it be a great honor for our village?











Chief, since you have the biggest business, you'll have no trouble taking care of the blacks.







He's an important prisoner of war.
















































The rice ball's a big one.
















But, in the light of recent circumstances, you shouldn't say that anymore.


















































































Bad, Yoichi.




















My dear ladies and gentlemen. I see you're having a good time.











Even if Tokyo is destroyed, Japan will fight to the last man.








We're gonna lose a lot.

































- Such a beautiful woman...




















































































































































































We've been told before that the Negro has important information and that we will all be rewarded.













I always bring you bad news.






























































































But right now, the most important thing is to kill this nigger to put an end to the differences between us.































I need more ammo.






























































































































We've always been told to fight to the last man.
"The final battle" on our home land.










































Thank you so much for your hard work.


































Don't worry, we'll only ask if everything goes according to the worst-case scenario.
Yoichi, we've had a lot of trouble with Jiro disappearing. We'll only ask him if it's too bad.



I'll be happy to help.


















































































- I got here first!






















Hemingway's handling it, and what's worse?















There's something I need to do.
Did you get my last letter?





- Was there something important?






















- I need a good review.








































Honey...









I don't want pity!

What's wrong with you, honey?



















Lanterns and moonlight dinners are beautiful!















































- Thank you very much, David!











Ready?















I can't talk to the first person I meet. Even now.











- It's a beautiful speech, but I don't believe it.






































The pets are announcing a new day!























- Good night, Dad.
- Good night, Karin.
Good night, everyone!








But the thumb is a little stubborn.

















Am I really little, or did the disease make me a child?









We need to wash something tomorrow.






- Nice child...


My sweet, lovely girl...



Good night.









I'm making the final corrections. It's not my favorite thing to do.






- Like when I was little.




































































- Sweet Karin...

































All I need is you!













































































I ended up in a big room.



























































































But here's what I understand: you need a theme for a new book.




















































































- I'm sick.









I felt really bad, but now I'm better.

- Karin, darling...


I need to talk to my dad before it starts again!


We need to give her a shot.
















Worse.
Much worse.


















Success was more important to me than even your mother's death.
I was secretly glad she was gone, even though I loved her. In its own way.







You have to draw a new circle, build new protections.






































I'm very happy.











Dear Karin, it all seems to you!



Martin, darling...
















Cold and calm.

















































The jury of the Berlin Film Festival awarded the first prize to "Woman is Woman."






















Nice card, Emile.

















Happy birthday.












Very nice.





Did you see my new number?






- There are more important things.



















































































I have more important things to do.
Doesn't it matter that I want you?
















Same thing as "a happy event"?








Because he's handsome and smart. And you.
















A new scarf?
































Dinner's ready?











































"Lido" is important.







Easy.

























There's nothing more beautiful than a crying woman.







































I'll ask the first guy I meet.



































































Come on, make up your mind." Last breath on TV tonight.






























I think it's a bad idea.































It's always the last word for a man.
































That's what old Cornel and young Moliere called... the ion... the stress of waiting.















Yeah, I agree, honey, but I think...













































Well... I've got something important in my head.











































He needs girls to work in Marseilles.
































Were you happy?











The letter that begins with "Dear POL" is in an envelope for Pierre, and vice versa.

She's going on a date with the first guy.

So she says, "Dear, you'll get the letter.

















































You need to know something.














- But it doesn't matter if I love you.
















































♪ You've been five years ♪ ♪ Relaxed, totally ♪



















♪ Smile on your face ♪ ♪ Be nicer, body and soul... ♪
♪ Yeah, body... I love you!
♪ Be the old girl again ♪ ♪ Fun, darling, darling ♪
♪ Someone I was happy with ♪
♪ I'm in love with you, and I'm happy with you ♪







































It means I'm not coming back... and I made up with Emil... and I'm happy with him.














































- Old fart!







I need to make a call.




































































































First class.
It's so beautiful...





































Such beautiful skin...


Good night.






































































Her last day here.







I need you.

















Sure, but we have to do something.

There's a little blue bottle in this closet, on top of it, without a label.









Last time, a few years ago, someone hit me, and nothing, I'm alive.



























I'm happy to do something nice for you now I see that you're a good person...




























I was so happy...
















- Very big...

Yes. very big.










You need to go to bed.
Don't think bad about me.
























I need to leave...


An old hermit and a girl who dedicated herself to God:


I need to get dressed.


























































Car's ready, señorita.





There's been a big trouble.







If something bad happens, it's your fault!





You need to meet some people.









We arrived on the first train with Mother Consuelo.


I had a lot to think about...




My uncle was a great sinner, but I'm also responsible for his death.

































Are you ready?



Too bad you can't see her.



- Are you the last?



























- Are you happy?













The blankets are ready.












It's Lucy, sweet girl.




































Dinner's ready.
Beautiful.


Are you in a bad mood?











I think I need a little more... tomato!











Good-bye, old-fashioned.







These are our new associates.
















































Good night, everyone.
Good night, señorita.








Fine, but I'm not gonna leave the property.






































If I use too much yellow, it'll be bad.










Yeah, you're so beautiful.
















You don't have to tell everyone about this at all!



No, señorita, that's the first one.




















Thank you very much.
















The less he eats, the more he hunts.





















































You're the first Saint I've met.



















Nice knife!

Are you happy?











I need to leave right now.






































I'll be ready.


You can go back to the big house.





















She's in such a bad condition!



Old curtains and curtains.






















Little teeth, juicy lips.








Do you need anything else?






























































The old rich bastard always had one.




That must be awfully expensive!




We're not gonna do anything wrong.
Smoke the owner's tobacco, that's not good.




I don't want to die until I eat on such a beautiful tablecloth!














It's very bad to smell but not touch.




















To our beautiful company!













































































Good night!

Good night, Don George.








































































We need to do something.




Will you play, dear sister?








When I first saw you, I thought to myself:



















- What, honey?


We can't keep them at home. Eddie always wants to drown them and the cat always has new ones.
Oh, honey.


Oh, honey.
















- No, I don't need your help.









Don't go too far. Tea's ready.































We need to think about it.




























































Go on. Aunt says you have to eat quickly.

- Good night, Dad.
- Good night, darling.
- Good night, Dad.
- Go upstairs. I have to say good night to Aunt and Katie.

Good night, Aunt.



- Good night, Katie.
- Good night.


































Something important.




































You're gonna have to make a reverend?










Oh, honey.





I need to clean up.


Shut your big mouth.














In the pen, she's getting worse.


I've already looked... put her in a big barn.



















Do we need to get some fish?

- Oh, I thought he needed a fish.










I think she just needs to eat less.

























But still, he has a beautiful face.

I'm glad he came to our barn, and you?






















Oh, sweet Jesus, boom...
When you're looking for an assassin, you have to act quickly... especially when children are around... you have to block the moves quickly.

I should have been surrounded, but...







You see, when you warn them... you don't have to make a lot of noise.
You don't have to scare them, yeah.
The church stuff has been stolen... two bags... we've got to go through it.







So, samaritan, was he bad or good?











































And now there are bad people and good people.

I think there'd be bad people, and they could...















Miss Lodge says that all Jesus needs is love...































Good night, dear Jesus.

















































- Well, what do you all want?
















We need to go around.





















- My little brother.



















Very handsome.



























That's why she's getting worse.















I should've had a souvenir that month.








- Mr. Weaver doesn't need your advice.










I need to see you.



Who knew... had to look at her.









- What do you say?







We need to find a safer place.






































































































Sweet Jesus.


















Thank you very much.

























God has a lot to think about, not just those who die.


You don't have to go far enough to see people hurt God.





































I'm gonna have to leave soon.



No... yeah... I need to see them.













- You don't have to tell anyone, okay?






There's a bag that needs to be delivered.


















































Honey, you broke up...









This is the last game, play well...


































For who? What did you say, darling?



































































It doesn't matter.
































We need to get them out of here.













- Come on, darling.





You want to make it worse for yourself?







Let go of me! This is the biggest chance of my life!






May life be short, but beautiful!





























































































































































































































He freaked out at the last minute!
























The officer isn't very important, but he's got a good palanquin.













The question is, who's gonna bring a lot of money first?
Everyone wants to win, so both of us need me. We just have to wait.







































































































































Are you ready? Proceed.













I don't need a bodyguard.









































































His wife is too beautiful.


But old Tacoimon had an eye on her.



I don't need her anymore!















































































Give it back or it's gonna get worse!



















You're just pretending to be bad.

























































































































































It's bad.




































There's a little temple nearby.






































I don't need prayers.







































And so, my dear parishioners and beloved fellow citizens,..

























Are you okay?

What do you want? Do you need something?

I don't need anything, go to bed.







































- Do you need anything?















Don't think bad.









That's enough, just a little bit.

































If you say so, I'm ready.



















- Yeah, Mom? Fefé, what beautiful flowers!

- Very nice, where did you get it?


















Anyway, I don't care about grapes as much as desire. Like a poem I love that says Saturday is better than Sunday.







































"It was so beautiful that I couldn't describe it!"














No, we don't, we don't have to.



























Or are we ready to throw the honor into the history dump with another old man?






























You need someone who's the right person to be his, so you can put him in bed with her.















Darling, what a beautiful voice Tonino has!

























"You were as beautiful as Madonna."



"I don't blasphemous, but yesterday, when I saw you,...... as beautiful and proud as a pagan goddess..."






Carmelo Patane is the godfather of an old priest.




But if you really need...



Hello, darling!




Playing the vanity of Carmelo Patane wasn't hard to drag him into my house, allegedly to get his opinion of the old grease on the ceiling of our living room.











































Hello, darling!
He's so sweet.


Bye, darling!

Angela, it's so good to see you!












































And I found an old gun that god knows how many years I've been in an old shitty nightstand...
And I found a gun that god knows how many years I've been in an old rococo dresser of the 18th-century Napoleon age.




























































But carefully, you have to show me that I'm suffering.















The portrait is still there in the old fishing cabin.


Is it beautiful?






- Very nice.





















- Not bad, even good.


































I couldn't make up my mind for a long time, but it's very important, Rosalia!
Rosalia, are you okay?






















































- No, no, don't.















- Yeah, honey.







































Dr. Talamone was a big gossip.
















It has been historically proven that you too have here, in the beautiful south, the time has come to reflect on the eternal problem of the emancipation of a woman............................ which our Chinese brothers have already successfully resolved.













































"Dear Dad and Mom, today I passed the Latin exam, "and I passed well."
"Dear Mom and Dad."















- It's a big disaster.







































The lawyer de Marzi was beautiful, full of passion and sarcasm.









Those cute little babies helped me a lot, I don't know why.






















































No, it's fine.





































This is the last case.



































































"We need a house!"


































































Can't you see what a beautiful day it is?














- Beautiful, huh? - Nope.
- Beautiful! - Nope.














Have you ever played with beautiful statues?











You have to be Einstein to know more than...




I'd like to show you something new... with artistic content, in a way separate, with forms.























































































- Stay calm, goodbye.
















































I have an important decision to make.
I need help.









I need your advice.








For that, signor, you need Urbe airport.







You need money?




Last time you needed money.
Now, if Robertino kisses his grandfather, old and poor, his grandfather will give him candy.

Nice kiss!














































































Since he was 12 years old. I'm old.







He's old!

You're not old.




















Are you ready, Amilkare?










































































Wearing new shoes!





I wanted to be with you for a while, and I needed your advice because...
I don't know, weird things have happened to me in the last few days.

It's okay.














































Happy!

































I'm selling because I need money for my family.


I need the money.
I need the money.




























I'm glad.









































- That's the last word!



I just finished my last word.











To a bad palace.



















Like, stop, three big ones!











It's all set.






















































































The perpetrator is extremely important.









- We need an exact surgeon.














































But they pay less.







Look, they're gonna gather around, see that your arm's broken. They'll say you need to go to the hospital.



- All set?
- It's all set.



















































































- Otherwise you're gonna get worse, it's gonna hurt.




Don't look, it's gonna get worse!
One second and it's all set!



























It's old.











They say you need a job. They say jobless is boring.




































































- I want to ask you something. - Are you ready to fight to death alone?

























































- Yes, my dear sister. Your opinion is very important to me.












































- Go, my dear!































































- Oh, it's very old, you'll find out how good it is.




- Drink one last sip.















- And they started hitting us first.











- I'm sick, Master!






















Poor Bango, which could be worse than bathing in this dirty water.


-Macist, darling, they've ruined me.


- My beautiful long beard.




- Maciste, darling.









- I know, Ligon, that's what you say on purpose.....when you can't find the right words.















































































- It's good to see you.
- Nice to see you again, too.
So they gave me money to fix my hotel. My beautiful beard, I don't have it anymore.








































































- You don't need to know that.




















- Right now, there's only one thing that matters to be firm and only after an order.




















































- It's beautiful, Cleopatra.






- The worst guard is the one we're gonna use to get inside.



- So you have to be very careful.














- It's gonna be their last fight.











- We need to find him.














- I need to talk to you.








































- I'm sorry, but I had to tell you that.
- Good night.
- Good night.





























- Here's what we need to do.












As soon as we're ready to leave.






























- How can you not be ashamed to live with such bad people?
- Dear friend, what's the problem?






























-Macist, it's gonna be first.










































































































- Only then will we go home with a lot of gold.









She's the only obstacle to us-- it's possible that a lot of people will be willing to fight for her.









































Princess Resia wants you to know that she's willing to do anything-- what you need to do, first of all, it needs to be saved by Queen Talima.





- We'll give a show to our new queen.
- It's finally the last time, Brutus.









































It's an invention of some last idiots.
Where can I get a new one?










Dear Bela, you don't care about snowballs, eclipse. You don't want to stay home.

































































There's a little bit left of the sun, so it doesn't warm up.










It's beautiful.
I'm glad you see that.



























































































Old in years, young in love.









But I'm big now.



















Well, I don't know. It's an old device, so it squeaks.




We need to identify 20 people to our Melenian colkhoz.














I brought everything you need. I bought you everything.























That's what the last idiots say!
Dad's the last one, too.



The receiver broke, the last idiot.








After that, Pete would need a new drawer...



















No, it needs precision.

I'm too old.



















I'm saying it's the grain first right now.


Or like Blagey, go to that old iron.














That first one knew how to smell the crust of bread.








I've had a break, not you, my dear Uncle.


































Dear Dutchman... it's stupid to start a letter like this.




I was a little girl there.






- Texted me, you idiot last.

Dear Dutchman, remember Robinson?









I have to say, I've learned with horror in Melenian that a calf is a small cow.

























Young in years, old in love.





































































- That darling, on the edge of the village.





























































Sucked it, dear Bela.














You have a beautiful name.















































Where did you go, Jana, sweetheart?




It's probably the last time we're here this year.







- He's got a new coat. - Nice uniform!
- You've been avoiding me lately.











































































We need to get back at our enemies... and they both have to pay.
























Always ready to serve!




















And what about what the so-called Scareful Grey Wolf, along with the stinking, fu-fu-fu, skunk,..was seen with the Red Riding Hood singing and dancing.....first in the woods and then in the big field!




















There he is, my loyal little squirrel.


















Scream for the first time!










If you want to find me, Red Riding Hood, you need to be careful.




























































































This Witch Queen is worse than the Devil!











You know, Red Riding Hood, you have the most beautiful grandmother in the world.





We have to run, Mr. Ludoed, before the Witch Queen slits us in half.


It's incredible! He's so big, and he's so stupid.













































Here you go, dear Babike.










Thank you, thank you very much, my dear Two of Three.
And you too, Mr. Babyka, thank you very much!

















No, no, no, no. It's so small, I can only eat it myself.
































She's so beautiful!


















Rusty boy, grow up because your courage is great!
I'm big!
I'm big!
I'm the biggest in the world!















That's not a bad idea.

We need to decide who's gonna be the first.














And all we need is the key to this bars.





We need a genius idea.














Listen to me, Mr. Ludoed. That's the genius idea we needed!




It's scary and it's not beautiful.
I'm not afraid because I'm the biggest and strongest now!



























They have to be stopped!












We need to find Mr. Ludoed and the Big Grey Wolf to help us take the sorcerer's potion from the Queen.



Then you have to go first because I'm bigger than you.













All we have to do is get everyone together.



























At the same time, after a few poop punches, you're squeezing like an old, cowardic ogre!







Oh, you little bastard.

























Let go of me, you old pig!











































- We're not gonna be bad anymore.

We have to get rid of him once and for all! - Come on!





Beautiful!

Ew! It smells worse than me!

























I'm glad the tumor started to fall.



























Goodbye, my dear!

More importantly, Mr. Ludoed, what will become of Mrs. Panflett's money and shares.











She said it was a pleasure to meet you, Mr. Ba-Ba, Babaika.












You'll be in very good hands, my dear!





























We have to attack them!








We need to hold hands so we don't get lost in the dark.

















Gentlemen, what's your last wish?


















































































We have to stop the saw!








It's you, my little, loyal friend!










Thank you all! We owe you a great debt!























Come on, darling. My sister wants to meet you.

































No doubt she's a beautiful girl.
It's very beautiful.





What shall we do now, O Beautiful Fairy?














That's because she went first.
Let's talk less and act more.





We have to teach them a lesson!



























Oh, Mommy, darling! I'm hurt! I'm almost crushed!
There's no more pleasure than revenge!












We owe this victory to you too, dear children!

This is the potion you need to undo my spell.
It's beautiful!








These eyes.............................. who are the most beautiful things, on your disgusting face........... will never see the morning light again in life.....................................................




























































Of course, my dear.










You have to banish this evil witch forever.

I'm not as bad as you think I am.






Yes, of course, but we need proof that she's become kind.


It's gonna be the first good thing in my new life.





It's the Beautiful Fairy.


I'm glad, I'm glad, I'm glad!


Yes! Now we're all gonna be as happy as we used to be!
There's only one small business left... and it's her.
Dear Fairy Morning Zari, make sure she's no longer a witch!
- Oh, yeah, yeah! The Fairy of Morning Zari, if it's not too much to ask, I'd like to be as beautiful as you.




I'm beautiful!









Ah, how beautiful the life of the heart is to beat with joy.
Life is always amazing and beautiful, and the world is full of light.
Let us sing the anthem of love with hope for every new day.
..even for the smallest.. fill your heart with joy.












































Poor granny. If she hadn't broken her last two teeth on the gold tooth she put in Jimmy, she wouldn't have recognized him!
Listen! You forget I used to take him to sleep when he got too old.









But it's obvious! She's in love with you, my dear Henri.



















She'll be just happy.
















But Henri, it doesn't matter, does it?
It's important, baby, it's important.










Not very convincing, but I'm ready to believe you.




You have to watch your tongue, you have to control it.





















And you're gonna have to hand over the other one! The one you don't have.

That's what attracts you! You need this.
















Juliette, is the coffee ready?













Come here, honey.
















What's that blouse? It's a new one, isn't it?
































































Look, they were nice, they warned me.


















































Love at first sight!
















































And this is your first lesson. Agreed?
























Okay, what do you want?

I'm gonna need a window.







































What's he like? Beautiful.

















You're too young! They're too beautiful. No, I can't make up my mind.

























I used to like me less.








Okay, my dear Sebastian. I agree.












































Corn! Corn with a lot of butter for Juliette.


Oh, look at this couple. They're so cute!




























We barely see him. That's the big boss.









But for the first time, I'd like to attend.


















I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see, I see,






Oh, good evening, beautiful lady!







Everyone's got such beautiful names.














Where's the equipment? - At the store, my dear!












































This is my first robbery.












































That's it, my lovely castle!



























































It's all nice, but I didn't come here to talk.





That's not even necessary.

































































I need five minutes to piss.


















Oh, that's so sweet!


































How beautiful you are!
And you're even better than you were!





You're so cute.






















- Oh, how cute!



- But you're not a beautiful girl! - Oh, you noticed!













But deep down, they're cute little girls.






























































Just... need him to be scared. But I'm not sure.


"Goodbye, dear Juliette..."




"Goodbye, dear Juliette! I'm not interested in your stories!"

















So I say, "Goodbye, my dear Juliette,


Goodbye, dear Juliette! I'm not interested in any of these stories!








And you're very beautiful.






























He's an old buddy, I've known him for years.
























































It's beautiful!


Oh, look at you, you've got a lot of love!



























It could have ended very badly for you, dear lady.













































You want me to believe, Juliette, that you're young, beautiful, funny, one of the pretty sisters-- fall in love with a nasty old man like me?













































You're so beautiful.































































































You're not very happy that I've come up to you.













Must be nice.

























You have a very nice head, full of lungs, laughter...




































































I have a thousand important things to do today.







Nice circumstances.









What beautiful windows!















'Cause I'm too grumpy, too old for a game like this.












































































A little trick like me, he doesn't even notice.







By the way, what happened to that beautiful fool that night?
Someone, darling?


I wasn't fun enough for her. She threw me away like an old dirty toy.














And no one can guess who's gonna stop first...
- You're Casanova. - That's cute! Casanova!







So I'm not too happy.














































She doesn't care about your old Antoine.













What do you want?












































































First warning: you talk, we'll kill you.













































Mr. Jussieu, Commissioner Morois recorded your first statement.




































































Didn't you notice the gun in the hands of the first man?






















You just said the first man showed up right after her.




It would be important if they called names... or if you noticed an accent.
One last thing...









































































































Don't do Simone. It doesn't matter.






























He's the one who gave me the first chance to speak.







But, my dear madam, I don't want him to think.
I need something... to come out of his subconscious.
































































Good night.
Good night.



























































Commissioner Malterreer at number one.
































Laborde, the offspring of one of the oldest French families, married the banker's daughter.




















































He's as free as he was in 1943 when he first came to see me.








Our little lives are full of big traps.









































Today he walked the same way, having the same anxiety, the same trembling in the whole body.















Poor man, he's in big trouble.














We can always say that Luano didn't do anything wrong.




































Luano, you said Mr. Jussieu's testimony was important to your case.


But I'm willing to try to remember if you tell me what exactly...

















































































I wonder what he needs.































































- I need to know what you can do.































- What are those beautiful eyes of yours?






















She figured out what I needed.
What did you want?












That filthy little blackie in you is really funny to me.







































Like a dog with a woman's head and big breasts.

- Well... big breasts.



































The finals of "Electers" are beautiful.







"There's time for that beautiful name, oh maiden.






























Beautiful.


















































For my new movie, I'm looking for a girl who wouldn't only be a good actress but also know how to sing.






















I just wanted to say that sometimes it's easier to deal with good guilty than bad innocents.























































After the first failed attempt, the storyteller... you'll see, approaches the naked wall by passing by some monk.
The storyteller continues his journey, and here... at the end, the very end of a small street... he sees... a silhouette, a figure...















It's just beautiful.





















You don't understand how important it is to have beautiful legs.





- No, I'm nice, that's all.






























I think that's a great idea.

































I can't, I don't know what you want from me.




























If you're interested in our old fragrances, we've recently made some bottles.


- Thank you, I'll come by. Goodbye.


















































There's gonna be competitions at school, I have to get ready.
















































- Don't bother, darling, I already know.








Everyone has to do what he thinks is right.





He's a bad politician, but as a man... he's very kind. Dad said you needed to be very careful.














































































































Patrice sent Luco to talk to Evan for the last time.














If one of us has to be shot, I'll get him first.











It's a big relief to finally get rid of this ball.






































































If you don't need me anymore...








Michelle Jussieu now knows again that being manly is simple and important.
Finally, he's free and happy.
What do you have to say to a young man?






- I need a room.






































- Honey, I don't have the will, please!


Thank you very much.














Look, Sam, I have a new guest down the hall, and he's a gentleman.


Mr. Russell, I'm sorry to interrupt your thoughts, but your bump is ready.
Come on, you're more important!










Thank you very much.



























Bye, darling.





- Sorry, honey.






























To stop the flood, we need work and strength.
And now all we have is a big fucking black flood.






What do you think about sitting in a room with a bunch of big fucking niggers?













- Nice to meet you, Adam.






Isn't that right, darling?






We went crazy last night, didn't we?













How do you like that, darling? Now he'll have someone to talk to.













All summer, we like it here, don't we, darling?


- Something wrong, darling?






































Then what do you want?













That's why I'm old school.





We consider this to be the biggest mistake the Government could have made.

































































This little town will be burning fire.






















































Now, do you want to fight it until the last minute, and keep fighting until the end?




And I'm willing to give my life if I have to! To see that my country remains free!













































- What do you want?
























This has to stop.
And we need to stop this right now.



















































What do you want?
















And I've already told you everything I need to know.






















































Forget it, I don't need your money until... I told you.

























Well, I'm glad to hear it.
















We've been happy for five years.














I like you, that's my mistake, I came to your room, just say good night, and we were just talking... and then, I don't know, all of a sudden it went wrong...




Mrs. Griffin said I wasn't the first, I mean, since you got married, she's slept with a lot of people.






That's why you did us a big favor, man!


































Your boy and the rest of the kids have to go to school. It's the most important thing!






It's gonna be okay here. Thank you very much.








So we think we need to talk.











I'm sorry, darling.







You better go home, honey, it's late.


I'm sorry, darling.
You don't have to.





And if that means so much to you that you're willing to risk everything, even your life for that, then the law must be right.

I'm gonna try really hard, darling.

I love you, darling.



















If you want to save your father's life... that's what you need to do...















You see, I was cleaning up the basement, and I need to get some stuff, can I ask you to help me?
- I need to ask Miss Siegfried...






































































Let this be your first lesson!





















- What do you want?


We've got a big case here!

















Now you, good people, probably tell yourself that you have to take this boy and take him to prison to see how justice is done, but let's see the truth.










































Uncle, when you were little, you didn't listen to your mom? Uncle!


















He's been a stocker lately.







































































Honey, where's the cab staying?



















































































- Talking alone is bad.







Well, I'd say in August of the forty-first year, there was a girl lost at Celivano Station.



























































































You have beautiful eyes.












Big.































- Thank you very much. - The hat, Kuzma Kuzmich, don't forget.





- Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.





- Thank you very much.


























No, Dad, I don't need to.
















Ah... then all the trees seemed big to you.














































- But she's beautiful.
- Beautiful.



It's... it's bad when everything comes to a person.


























Come in, darling.





























































































































She's an exception to a lot of people.














































































No, no, honey, I'm gonna go.










- Have a good trip.
- Thank you, sweetheart.









- What's wrong with your heart?
- Who knows... if it's bad.











































































They do, darlings. They do, mother-in-law.































I just don't understand, well, why do you have to lie to me? Well, why would you do that?





Back then, the trees were big.

































You can't see a man happy.




















































- What do you think, dear friend?























































- You need to eat more.





























































































































































Look, it's even more beautiful from here.


It's beautiful!





Beautiful.














New trips have taken place.


























































































Then the other hand pulled off her bra. And her chest is as big as the moon. - That's a trophy!








And big ones. Right, Agostino?








- It must be a big house, huh? Yes.





































































Now, after the revelations of Saro and the boys, his mother appeared before him in a whole new light full of obvious shame.

Are you here, darling?


















































Who are these new friends?











The worst samples of bourgeois are all insatiable rich people, freaks and fools.
And it's gonna be weird to see the pretty ones.
They're too rich to be beautiful and too old.
Right, but even the kids look old.
But you're... you're very beautiful.




No, darling.


No, darling.












That's cute!









































He needs Agostino.












































































































































































It's a good thing he's old and half blind.


























We don't need a faggot. - Sandro!
















It's a nice kiss, and it's gonna be a great picture.










- Why would I do that?












































You don't have to be afraid.



Isn't this "purity" carrying something new, even more vicious?





























First time, huh?


















I don't need punks. - Get out!


















How a man should give up his care and think less before he sleeps.




- Oh, good to see you.


















- We need to audition.














- Peter, darling.

















So, first lesson.



















They need younger.



Beautiful building, isn't it?















































I should've stopped it back then.
















































We were eight, we only needed two.





















- He's so happy Tony's here.



















- Nice to meet you.



- Goodbye, sweetheart.
























I need you to mark your own mistakes.






Ready?
Now, first group, from the beginning.







































































































































































That's his first solo.
















































































- Don't worry, honey.





- But listen, darling...















- But you said it yourself, if Tony doesn't study well...










But, Mr. Phila, didn't you insist that studying is the most important thing?


- Arrhymetics, who cares?

















































































































Don't act like a baby.










He just needs to keep his mouth shut, that's all.






















- Okay, we're all set.





















































































So, at least for a while, he needs his friends around, the people he's been living with, working and playing for the last four years.





















"Yemanja" is the queen of waters, the old mother of Irek... the lady of the sea who loves, protects and punishes fishermen.






The one who's alive always shows up, and Firmino Bispo dos Santos, son of this beautiful land, won't forget old friends.

























































- But he's old enough to go to sea alone.







- You know what? The question is, a brave man grabs a young woman, gets married and is ready.


There's got to be more.
It's a big client.



I have to... go to town, look for a new network for us.
A new network?


If I give them a new network, what's the profit this year?









It's time for the master to buy a new one.






























































What a beautiful mulatto.







Old guitar, what's wrong with you, that you're moaning?
Old guitar, what's wrong with you, that you're moaning?

























When we played, poor Fairmino always had a worse toy.




Everyone's sorry for Aruan, and he's just a big fool.














Could be worse...





























- Because I was old.

But this is the first and last time... when I've resorted to witchcraft.





They want too much, and there are people down there who pay a lot less.
- But he knows that the network is old...





We need these people.


























The police card is very big.
And now they've invented a new word... a subversive element.
Sounds like something important by the name.




































With the raft, it's less... it's more risky, but the fish is ours.




Why is no one brave at the right moment?

He's smart, he's old.







The first one who goes this way, I'm gonna shoot him.














The situation is always bad.


They only know how to fish, and there are no important people to protect them.


























It was the worst day of my life.








Yes. The worst part is Maestro wants to see if you're really brave.













Are you saying I have to risk it first?
Are you saying we don't need a new network?


Then the whole world will believe that Jemanja is calm.














All I need is courage, courage here in my head.

















It's important to me that you go.


Whenever something bad happens here... I tell a story about him. But it's not your fault.
Joaquin was too handsome.









The Queen is jealous of beautiful men.
























- What do you want? I was at the big rock when I saw something in the water.

She sang a beautiful song.














































It's good for all of us. We must bring an important gift-- his body.














The firm is bad, but he's right.













































Honey, you're the only one who can't.





















































































Eight pounds to the first person to sign.

















































It's a pleasure to be here. It's really nice to be here.







































They're supposed to be in the front row tomorrow.






































I'm very happy to be here. I'm very happy to be here.














Thank you very much.







































I'm ready to eat the boar! A barrel of wine and a roast!





Well, you're sorry, you little bitch.

























Cheers to the beautiful ladies!







- Who needs a monk?





We don't need your story.



He was silk and very beautiful.















My little thief.




































How nice of you to visit us.












































This one's too big, I'll take a smaller one.






































































What, it's bad?







- She's beautiful.

























That's sweet.









- Not as bad as it looks.






















































































Everyone gives you flowers, but one day they'll turn into straw.

























































































Life is more expensive than waving a hat.






Why do they say happy is someone who's honest?















- I need an escort.














In turn, dear girls.
































I should've done it first.
In pleasure and danger, I'm always the first.















I don't want you standing here first.
I'm your only and lucky owner.
My little jealous.














































I need Cartouse.














































































































































You were the first to demand punishment for them until...




































































No, honey, I'm right behind you.





































If I need anything, I'll take it.

I don't want those diamonds.
What do you want?



- I don't need anything.

You need me. I have everything you need.














































As you wish, darling.


























What does this girl want?






















New tricks of the sea devil.























That's all I've been doing lately.



































How's your dear guest?

She wants to tell you something very important.




























































Dear friend, I have two things to do for you.
First, what can Dr. Salvatore tell the paper about the sea devil?






























Dear Olsen!



















Everyone's gonna live there free and happy.




Dear friend, but it's like a fairy tale.






First citizen of the underwater republic.































She's very beautiful.












































































Bad business again?





















- He's an old friend of mine.
















So it's love at first sight?

Another old friend? I don't know.
Honey, go to your father.
















I have to be on the beach again tonight.


You're happier than them.
























































The guy was someone else's first jump.




Where's the guy who jumped first?

































- God, it's beautiful.



































Buy a new network, put it against the hole, and watch it yourself.

The new owner of the Dolores villa.

























I dreamed of seeing Guttiere rich and happy.


















I'm so happy you're alive!




























I'd strangle you if I didn't need you!



















The first shell's gonna blow your shit out!










































































- Take it easy!








































I'm still needed here.



We need to put a car in here.
















































You'll still be happy.
I want you to be happy.

























































































You stink worse than sheep!




















































Who needs it?


















Sure. What's wrong with that?







You're in big trouble this time.













- The new car is beautiful, isn't it?





- Do you have to go to Esperia?































You made her sell the apartment, spent $5 million on shops, and now you've bought a new car with the money that that poor woman gave you!


I already realized that I had to go.








He stays here, and if you don't like it, get out of here, you old hag!














What do you think, that if I'm old, I can be wiped off my feet? Put the knife down!






Money, expensive clothes! Clothes!





We have to burn all these clothes!











We need to hurry, or I'm gonna be late.




I need to see my friends!































What do you want? I don't have a lira.















And I want to see everything, to the last lire!

































Do you think I'm giving you money for beautiful eyes?























Just one thing: I took a beautiful long walk on the beach.







































































































































On Via Portwens, in new houses.











Francolycchio and I had to dial 2,000 lire. Two thousand. We needed money to look decent.

- We needed money to make lunch.


















































You don't even have to do the other one, just the dumplings.










































































I just need to get some groceries, 'cause my mother doesn't leave me anything.


Wait, I'll write you down what you need.



It takes at least 2,000 lire.





You have to come up with something.









































What a beautiful name...
























































Maybe you forgot some important details.

































Such a beautiful reprimand.





















And then when you have to pull out a thousand lire...





















What do you want?


























You just have to press like this.





It's working. You just have to press the button, and it's gonna play.





Pretty nice.












- Hey. - Nice to meet you.






Aren't you talking about the big game that's going on at the Colosseum?









- Nice to meet you, Mr. Campbell.














Well, Terry, honey, I didn't know you were still here.

























It's not what I say that matters what you say.
Good old-fashioned technique, isn't it?







Doesn't that matter? Everything is absolutely important, Charles.
You know, you're right, in our therapy, it's important to get to the roots of the past, but we have to live in the present.





































I'm ready to hit him again and again! Kick!
























A quiet, quiet man. He came here to retire. That's what he did.




















































































I'm glad, Charles.
You're very nice.









They're beautiful.
































































































Did you notice that she has a new watch?








Your sweet patient?
























He called me and told me he offered you a new job, and you freaked out again.




















Yeah, she was beautiful.
Very beautiful.














Ralph was a very calm man. Everyone loved him.














































He's beautiful. I love this place.





























I'm wondering if you're ready.






















































































































And you're saying she was beautiful?

Ruth was very beautiful!



I remember Ruth taking me to my first school prom.






































Charles, don't you think you need help?





- You need intensive care.
You need more help than I can give you.







I need to be taken care of.









































































- About the new job?
I don't need a job.



























































And we know he's ready to kill more.



For the last time, no!

































- I need to make a call. - Is it that important?











I'm so glad you're here.












































There's a great lobby on the ground floor.





















You look like you need some fresh air.



Nothing new is going on upstairs.


















Last time I saw him, we were leaving the elevator.























I'm glad you're still here.






Are you ready to transport him?









Last time I saw him...
















































He said bad things about her.























It's so bad he's not interested in you.









































You will, but I need his name.






































Tell me you need the money...








































Catch the last rays of the sun, baby!
















































You know I'm obsessed with you, so beautiful, clean, impossible...
































This is the last time.







It's bad that I don't believe you for anything.











































































































That's for your... little black blues singer!








My first love...





























You're as good as the young lady at the Crazy Horse cabaret...


















I have beautiful breasts.


Just give them all the money. There's no money, and they don't need you.





















- Do you find me beautiful?











- Oh, you need loud words...


































Our little heartbreaker is at the villa right now.



































- Take the little one.











You're beautiful!
































It's beautiful!



They're leakproof universes, always ready to go somewhere.


























Isn't it beautiful here?



























































Ivan is your first love?





























































My dear... they should... lay eggs.
























Enough, sweetheart...








You used to be into these fleeting passions with a lot more humour!



















What do you want from me?




























She'll be looking for a new meeting with you.






































- With little eyes.

















- I would treat you with great respect.













To make a good pastis, you had to pour water carefully through the sugar cube, holding it above the glass.

















I need time to find the cash.































And then... when I gossip my web, dearest Eric will be happy to spend the night in the park just to hide from Isabelle's eyes.









You remind me of the first favourite of the old days.
































































































































These impulses of your love are very sweet, but sometimes they just freak out.





For your sake, I'm ready to go on a mission.







































































































Having borne the meagre burden of existence, I tried to find a new master to serve with him.


































It's not that important, though.











With a pathetic existence, I was looking for a new master.


What do we have to do?





































































When Mr. Elder personally reported your wish to Mr. Bennosuka, he pointed out that it is very rare today to meet such a brave man.



"Do his last will.

"But unfortunately, I have to go to an emergency meeting with Mr. Doey.















It's all ready for the harakiri ceremony.

I need a little more time.





























It's all ready for the ceremony.






Go with a calm heart.



















In recent years, this ritual has become an empty formality.











































There's no need for such honorary preparations.
For the last moments of my life, a poor ronin like me... there's no more suitable dress than what I'm wearing right now.










I believe he's a fine warrior in this house.







That's not good.


You need to choose someone else.

































Motome was a 15-year-old handsome boy, and my daughter, Miho, was an angel's 11-year-old child.






















You are a widowed falcon who cherishes his little child with the strictness of his upbringing, listening and watching as it turns into a glorious hawk rather than a falcon.








You must know as well as I do.



I'm making my last request to my old friend.

That's why I'm going on my last journey before him.












Ginnai died because he knew if he wasn't, you'd do it first.




















I asked him to let me in his room, but he told me that his condition was so bad that he couldn't see anyone at the moment.

























Hicukiro was the first to insist that Motome Chijiva end his life with a harakiri.














I have to send someone to find out more...












I just need one out of three.















But an autopsy of the abdomen alone will not ensure a calm path to another world.
I need an assistant who will lightningly cut off my head... a skilled sword-owner.






































Yeah, I'm ashamed to think of our lives for the last eight to nine years.



If I don't get back in time, the food's ready.















I came to express my displeasure, but you took the first step.

















A young and beautiful girl who doesn't even have a festive kimono.













It's good to see you.










If she looked like me, she wouldn't be so beautiful.
































You little bastard!











It was so beautiful, it happened.







The more desperate we find work, the more dangerous we are. We need to be careful.

If you're less concerned about finding a job, you don't have to answer to anyone or follow anyone's orders.



You don't have to feed him every time he cries.


Are you ready?






















Miho's condition was deteriorating. But the worst was yet to come.




























I have to go.



















He's getting worse.











That was his last words before he left and the last time I saw Motoma Chijiwa.



That was the last request that Motome Chijiwa came to us.
However, we considered the palace gate to be an inappropriate place, so we offered him our inner court, where his last will was fulfilled.
Recently, there have been many ronins in Edo that appear in front of clan palaces and extort money, threatening their stomachs.

However, the visit of the noble samurai Motome Chijiwa, who was not afraid to die by committing harakiri, and we who serve the Ii clan, who honored the ritual to carry out his last will, will serve as an example for the dishonest ronins.























We wish you good night.



















But I still have one last word for you.




You didn't even think it necessary to ask him, to find out the real reason for his request. No one gave him the opportunity to speak... no one here tried... none of you thought it necessary to ask what happened.

Motome was definitely going to tell me, make the last effort to hand over custody to me, and come back here to the House of the Ii clan.










































I'm not the one who needs to ask.



















































































































It was the people of the mountains, a new breed.









Family people needed a wider road.






People who yearn for virgin land and a new life could now find it.






The biggest problem in the east was stones. It's been a while, I've been collecting hundreds of bashels of these stones!



One beautiful morning, I put a bucket of rocks on it. A bucket!






































However, the channel was only the first step towards the promised land.











"It's for luck," he said for the first time.









I want silk dresses, beautiful crews, and a nice man who smells good.




- Ready?





















































Good night.









Anyway, thank you very much.
And the Indian girls are beautiful?

How long has it been since you've met a beautiful white girl?

How do you think I'm beautiful?






Ma'am, looks like this isn't your first kiss.


























































































































It is traditional for brave men to master new lands with their bare hands.





















































As soon as we're done, I'm on the first boat, heading back east.


















I think it's the last time I've seen an animal.



However, it broke out. Large territories with beautiful Spanish names have been added to the states.











Look, I've invited you to the most expensive dinner in St. Louis, and I wouldn't mind if you sat still.





- Later. It's very important.
It's always important.
And the older they are, the more important it is.



That old donkey?










He left you a gold mine that brought you $3,500 in the first week.

Sweet old donkey!




































Under the powder, turns out to be a pretty face.









I don't need money, I need a husband.


Beautiful morning.





Thank you, but whatever you're offering, I don't need to.
















That I have beautiful hair.


























Backwards. I've explained to you when the wagon breaks down, I need someone who can fix it, not bet how much it's fixed.




I bet I'll stay in your caravan.










You, on the last wagon, pull up the rope!

















I am prepared to assume the duties of a faithful wife.
Yeah? Are you ready to dispose of my property, too? Mr. Van Valen?































































There's a chance they need more cattle than we do.
























































Last I heard he was in Hentown.












A ranch as big as mine, you've never seen.









Those who managed to get rich wanted to get enough of all the money they could buy, and the choice was great.








Lily, we need to talk.












It's a small, ugly city full of fleas.












Lincoln left Congress and left law practice, realizing that the south would fight for the new uninhabited territories.













"Dear Eve..."




His father left at the first call of the pipe.














I wrote that you were even less a farmer than your father.








































Shots fired all day down near a little church in Shilo.












































































It doesn't matter.













It's important what you think, Grant.


























Where? I need you, Zeb.




You don't need me. The farm is yours.
















I just needed somewhere, and he went there first."








Brave, crafty and fast against bloodthirsty Indians, bandits, goulak, and sometimes great water.
But while they were running, there was a new, faster way to transmit information -- a telegraph.
And the Indians have a new fun. Listen to the sound of the wires.


However, nothing, no force of nature, could stop the struggle of two giant corporations for a better way to meet each other.




































You just lowered him because you need him.


















































































He changed his way to the old one?








I need someone who knows the language and who they trust.






























































I hope you're the first to be killed.














































Good or bad, man belongs to his tribe.

Now the huge herds have made hundreds of miles to the West, where they were needed.




The sheep destroyed the grass, and it was expensive.


But the time for thugs and thugs to shoot was coming to an end. An increasing number of citizens demanded the rule of law and were prepared to stand up for their positions. And the West-based cities just wanted to be the same as the Golden Gate.




Is that your last price?


A treasure that was dear to his heart.


































And Aunt Lilith's house is as big as this mountain?



Do you think you recognize her, sweetheart?














Mom was telling the truth, you're really beautiful.


I'm very happy.
















Is that a beautiful Mrs. Rawlings?


And you're happy, aren't you?
























































I don't want any trouble.
















I don't want any trouble.


















I don't need them here.







You don't care about the robbery, you need Gant.
























































And I really need your help.

























That's what your dad's gonna decide when we go to your new house.














Their first settlements and places of trade have become large and well-known cities around the world.


























I spent the last franc on the road.











































Looks like he's very happy with his new steam boat...






















- Please, Your Grace, we need to talk to you.


























- First question: where did you find the bottle?

























My dears, do you think I wouldn't be the first to respond if I had the slightest chance to find your father or someone on his team?














































First of all, the odds are small...















♪ Don't believe the first person you meet ♪






































































































It's a big deal! ♪ We're happy ♪ ♪ We're happy ♪ ♪ we're getting up ♪












Look, my dear.











It doesn't matter that we're staying in the cabin.




















































Your new orphanage.







When I was little, she seemed sad to me...








































There is no other place in the world where such beautiful, picturesque earthquakes can occur; only here!


It seems that the last centuries of the earthquake have bypassed this place.
















We need to change course!



















































No doubt he's got kids he needs...













- I was happy to help...


First time right in the heart.






















See, the big plain goes beyond the horizon?


















































Be glad to be on the way.







Do I need to make lunch? Cal plesir!














Be glad to be on your way!

























Don't think bad.























That's exactly what we need!





































This is the last hope!













Hmm... you're so suspiciously calm...

- I don't know, right, which is worse:




































It's so good to see you!






































































I'm willing to give myself up to the ship's rats if they had the slightest chance to escape!

What do you want?

















We took one poor guy aboard, and he was hit hard by waves and nearly drowned near the coast of New Zealand.
- New Zealand?






- Oh, my God, if he got off the coast of New Zealand, he must have been captured by the Maori!















New Zealand isn't in the Indian Ocean.































And if they want to sell their prisoners more expensive, we have to be ready for it.


Oh, Mademoiselle, you are too beautiful in a new dress to fill your head with such things!











Don't be agitated, my dear.



You know, a couple would probably have a big future in shipping if it was easier to control.







There is no way that the note refers to New Zealand.


- My Lord, I'll be the happiest man in the world if it turns out I'm wrong again.





- What a beautiful weather!


































Have you ever been to New Zealand?























- We're getting paid, my dear.























The first one was Britannia, and now it's a brand-new steam boat.















- It's okay, my dear.





May they be honored by the words of old Bill Gay.





























































- The hole is too small.




God forgive me, I don't know what's worse: a lunatic who thinks he's smart, or a French man who admits he's a fool.






























































































































Good to see you, Glenarvan!

















































































The prisoners were the object of experiments, and the object of great concern, of those who carried them out.

One day they came to pick a new subject from among the prisoners.






The last hope of survival is time.





The shock was too big.































































And that was the end of the first experiment.
















His excitement made him forget for a moment that the museum meeting was the last.

















Now they were here ready to accept him as one of their own.



But the first thing he saw was a woman's face on the edge of the survey site.










































On the front page.



























I need to talk to the general.









Apparently, he doesn't represent a great deal of value.



We don't need him in Cairo, so let him go to Arabia.


If he thinks we should send a weapon, we'll do it.
















The big one starts small.


We think we need to win the war now.
















"I don't know how to entertain, but I will turn a small city into a great state."




























- Ask me why I need it.


Of course you need me.
What do you have to do?

















Believe me, for an ordinary man, it's a big roast.












































When you're ready to go, hit her and say, "hat-hat-hat."

















































































The situation is worse.




What you have to do is keep your mouth shut when you're in their camp.






































- I don't need a servant.
































That's why we have to take her first.










The Canal is one of the most important sites of this war.

I understand that the channel is important to Britain.













Your men need more training than guns.








He's handsome, isn't he?



Look, Britain is a small country, smaller than yours.














Stupid old fool.



























The English are greedy to a great extent.












Who needs sand?







But my father is old. And I... miss the lost gardens of Cordova.

To restore greatness, we need the English... or...


We need a miracle.







I'll cross if you're ready.



































































































Whatever it is, we have to get to the sunrise tomorrow.



























































































The audience I've heard of, you don't have to call for help to keep an eye on your well.



























































If a man is born to be a servant, Vizier Ali, Faisal is not the worst master for him.













































































































































































































We need two big glasses of lemonade.






































I need a room with beds and sheets.






















- Aqaba matters.
- What does it matter?










Beautiful.






















































































A thousand Arabs are a thousand knives ready to go at any moment.



























I'd like to know if I can say on your behalf that we don't need Arabia.


I need five.

















































































You need to know about you.



















































You need a character who will lead your state to war.

Lawrence is what you need.














Nice friends of yours.





















































































































































































































- It's an old wound.





Not that it matters.






















































Look, Ali, I think I found a way to be... usually... happy.























Well, I have to go there.








- It's good to be back.









Major Lawrence certainly has something to report on my people, his weaknesses, and that they need to be preserved in the interests of Britain.
































And I need a regular job.






And it's so fucking important.





You're an important part of the offensive.



I don't need them.











- Need a doctor?


















































That's what I need.
You need someone to take over the right flank of the Turks.
























































I don't need ordinary people.










Beautiful.

The last infantry reinforcements are coming up, but Mullud...

































































































They're in the first place.



















There are three big... cars.








- Then we need English engineers.






- He doesn't matter to us.




















































You can't do those new old dog tricks.






































































We're just as happy to get rid of him, aren't we?









































My motto is, "Be ready."































I'm ready to die for a drink.












How much does a guy like you want for that cute gun?

















Oh, you old toad.











Would you like to say the last words before you die, Quilty?










































Recently, in America, where so many Europeans have already found their refuge, I decided to spend a peaceful summer in the lovely resort town of Ramsdale, New Hampshire.




Monsieur, if what you need is quiet and rest assured, you will find no more rest anywhere.












- It's very nice, yeah.









Very nice.





You're gonna need to see the reproduction collection in my bedroom.



Very nice.
This is my little Van Gogh.








































You have to see the garden before you go...











It's very nice.















It's bedtime, darling.
Good night.
Good night.
Good night, Lo.








Hello, darling.

















The D.A.'s got some new witnesses.















Honey!










































Very nice, thank you.






























Charlotte, Mona's having a little party later in our house, she and Freddie Beale, and someone else and they're gonna have a party or whatever.






It's too much trouble.















- Good night, Charlotte.
- Good night, Gene.
Good night.
See you later. Good night, Humbert.
















My dear darling, darling, naive man.









What do you say I teach you some new dances?

I don't even know the old ones.













All right, ready, let's go.






My first love date.




















Honey...













But, Mom, I'm hungry, and I need something to eat.









Darling, bring it upstairs.










Good night, Lo.





She didn't want anything bad.
















My neurolgia will unite with the burn, the old ally, and...
Good night, and thank you for a lovely evening.






















I'm really glad you called.



I'm glad you called, Gene.
Well, you and I have something very important to discuss.






Thank you very much.












One of my little freaks.













































Thank you very much.

























































Thank you very much.























...and you're ready to put your life together with my forever...





Gum, honey.


Honey, the door's locked.
Honey, I don't want us to have secrets from each other.















I can make you happy.




Honey...


























Darling, you know I have a very bold dream.







Honey, we're just gonna be alone with you, and it's gonna be forever.
Honey, you're distracted.
Just a minute, darling. I want to think of something.











Hello, darling.





You lost your new sweater?










Yeah, I'm happy.















































But you'll never see that little shit again!








That's what you need, a little drink.







Honey, I'm so sorry.












































We need to hold on.


Just remember, the hardest part is in the first few days.

































You don't have to explain it to me, I don't have a problem with you.



Thank you very much.

I'd love to.













































No, darling.





























Mr. Swain, how does an actor manager take his free time in a small town like this?



























Yeah, I need a bathroom room, or two bathroom rooms.































Thank you very much.











Why, my dear?
Because, my dear, when my dear mother finds out, she'll divorce you and I'll be strangled.




















You don't have to leave at all.



You don't have to think like that: I don't have a suspicious attitude.













I noticed you moved in with a lovely little girl.

Not so small, though, if you think about it.

It's tall, it's not small, you know, but it's so cute.
I really want a lovely, tall, little girl like this...


Isn't it wonderful to have a lovely, tall, charming little girl?

I don't have children; no boys, no tall little girls.







































I don't like hearing about these things, and I can punch him for not giving him a beautiful, comfortable, movie bed.


The little girl is probably sleeping in bed and I don't know what we're talking about...














Thank you very much.









We don't need her anymore, take her away.
- You don't need a cot?













Okay, good night.


























Of course, I have to shave, I haven't shaved since yesterday morning and I'm the kind of man who has to shave twice a day.


























Didn't you ever play that game when you were a kid?

















































I'm sure we'll be very happy, you and I.






We'll find ourselves a new home.





I'm gonna be sick.






What things do you need in particular?

We'll send for them, and in the meantime, I can buy you new ones instead of old ones.



































































































I need a note from you that you're gonna let me.









That's the first time I've heard of it.





















All right, honey, go wash up.









Dr. Humbert, nice to meet you.
















You see, Lolita's a nice kid, but the beginning of maturation seems to be going through with certain difficulties.


She's a beautiful girl, you know, with raisins and such movements of such shapes that it pays a lot of attention.





























We believe that it is equally important to prepare the disciples for a mutually satisfactory marriage and for a successful birth.




















I don't know, but maybe we'll find another approach that's a whole new, completely different approach.

Any new Lolitha force field, maybe more involvement in extracurricular activity?










You think it's just as important?





Don't worry, oh, little nymph.















And especially Little Lolita.

























































































I don't want those empty, stupid clichés from you.











































































Hello, darling!





Dr. Humbert, I hope you don't think I'm abusing our good-neighbourly relationship, but I need to tell you that neighbors are curious about you and your girl.






Well, good night!
Good night.





















Yes, my dear.









































If that's the case, it's the worst thing to show him that we're scared.















































Maybe you should see a doctor in the next town.



























Your father, darling.













- Do you need to annoy everyone?























































I don't have a psychiatrist, and I don't need a psychiatrist!

I'm wondering if you're ready to give our investigators a report, Professor, about your sex life if it happens.



















































I'm calm.
















We don't need the police.







































































You wouldn't have written if you didn't need the money.

































He had such a beautiful Japanese Eastern philosophy of life.












Dick is very nice and we're very happy together, but I think this is a different case.


























I'm sorry, darling, Bill cut his finger.





- Nice to meet you, Professor.





















Of course, sweetheart.























Well, it's like a new finger.


Nice to meet you, Professor.

Call me, darling, if you need any help in the kitchen.
Dick's awfully cute, isn't he?





From here to our old car, 25 steps.
















If you need time to think, okay, 'cause I've been waiting three years, and I can wait my whole life if I have to.







I can't do this to him, he needs me.








One man in Ramsdale is willing to pay the mortgage on the house and give them $10,000 in cash.


































- Why not?


















That's why his appearance, in the old army tradition, even the generals, makes him reach out to give him credit.














Honey, you deserve a congressional medal.















Advertisement, that's what you need, cheap pimple!








You know I don't need anything.












































He liked the whole new job. If it weren't for one thing.










This is the first time the horticulture has given us this important new discovery in horticulture.
At first glance, hortenasia may appear to be a rather unattractive plant, but it also poses a number of problems.
























Dear Young, with your age, you've become an even bigger bore.


Excuse me, Dmitri dear.









































































Senator John Jerkis Izzlin of the United States of America, and my question is so important that your answer will determine the freedom and security of our country as a whole.


Enough with the slugs, dear sir.







































And so far, that's all I'm ready to say on this subject.













When you returned to Korea, along with all the others, and came to command, what will you do first?

































The worst thing I could dream about is our Sergeant Shaw.







I guess that's the way it's supposed to be.

I guess that's the way it's supposed to be.





















We need you for a test.





















It's a great pleasure, a great honor.





It's good to see you again.




- Nice place you got here.


















































He's fully prepared to be handed over to our American resident.
And yet, I am, as a man who is fully responsible for Soviet operations on the entire eastern coast of the United States, not ready to hand it over to our resident until he proves his suitability in practice.



I'm just shocked that an intelligence officer, with all his great responsibility, is willing to put at risk a mechanism as perfect as our Raymond is, out of a hunch.


































































There's a lot of bad things in the army, but she really cares about hers, and that's why I'm here.












Lies from the first to the last word.














Good night, Ben.






























Thank you so much for that.














































I want to meet an old buddy who's now a newspaperman.




























Now I need a job.


My good friend, we don't need interpreters here.







I'm asking you for a job because you're a big man, you saved my life.










I hope dinner's ready.












You'll be a bigger idiot if you stop going there.

- Honey...





Well, you know, honey.
















I have to admit, you're a big original if you're the one who made the police call me for our first date out of shyness.






Of course, honey. Anything.
















I grabbed my coat, kissed my fiancé's cheek,

Not Chinese, my dear.








Of course, my dear Ben.


























































































































- Nice girl.






































It's very important.





























My dear, although we have done so according to all the requirements of modern science, there is another popular remedy against snake bites that we have not tried.



























What do you want?





















And with each passing day, it will be worse and worse until every citizen of our country stands up to voice the whole voice on whose side they are: rights and freedoms, or on the side of all the Thomas Jordans of our country.










































































"It will serve as the second key when the mechanism for the new assignment is restarted."








I've been thinking a lot lately, and you know what I came up with?












Now I think she's gonna be Raymond's beautiful wife.
She spent the last couple of years in Paris.



















What do you want?


When you announced you'd show up for lunch, I naturally thought you needed something from me.








I'm asking because the ball is in honor of an old friend of yours.


Remember that cute girl you met before you joined the army?


























Raymond, honey!
Raymond, darling.












I came to this fascist gathering because my daughter assured me that it was very important to her personal happiness.










I need you.





I'll take her with me, darling.













It's okay, honey.


















I'll spend every cent and everything I can borrow to block you.



Even if John Izlin was a paid Soviet agent, he wouldn't be able to hurt our country any more.











It's, my darling, called "an accelerated well."





I have a big day tomorrow.
We're having lunch with Raymond, we're gonna play a little solitaire, and we're gonna be thinking about our service in Korea and our old buddies from China and Russia for a long, long time.
Then a couple of sessions that are gonna tear down his entire wiring, and then, my dear, it's all over. It's gonna end forever.







Well, what is it? Let's do it, baby.



























Isn't she beautiful?
Aren't I the happiest person in the world? All over the world?

Anyway, I'm happy.















Here, first.






































The village of Bedford has a small hotel, Bedford House.












Sweetheart.


It's just... sweetheart.
My darling.




















Sweetheart, there's been a big event.




Josie was waiting for you until the last one.






- She looks very happy.






In fact, I'm inclined to think that his attacks are an honor to me.
I haven't received so many letters in support of the Senate in the last 22 years.
I'm very glad to hear that, sir.








Raymond, my darling!





































No, I need him to think he's safe.

















It doesn't matter right now.
























































































Remember, it's very important.
I need the candidate to be killed about two minutes after the start of the performance, which depends on the speed of his reading under stress.

"And I won't ask my fellow citizens to protect their freedom to do what I'm not willing to sacrifice myself."
" Freedom is more important than life."




- to do what I do - to do what I'm not ready to do.
- not ready to sacrifice."

- Freedom is more important than life. - Freedom is more important than life.

I worked for them, I fought for them, so soon I'm gonna win them the most important springboard in this country, and they're gonna pay me back by taking your soul.



The last step, and then, when I come to power, I'm gonna throw them down and drown them in the mud for everything they've done to you,






































And the whole White House would be scattered if it had to be.


♪ Oh, tell me, do you see ♪ ♪ In the first sunshine ♪ ♪ That in the battle we read ♪ ♪ In the evening bar ♪






We got it covered, honey.















to do things I'm not prepared to sacrifice myself.
Freedom is more important than life!


































































































Easy, madam.










































































Have you noticed how beautiful she is?


















I felt really bad.















We both needed it.
You have a beautiful accent.
















































First long pants. First girlfriend.







Beautiful bedroom.




You're so beautiful.







































She's changed since she last gave birth.























Beautiful evening.



























































































- Still need to know...


















Well, you're in great shape!












I'm watching a big business, 50 people in the state.













































































You don't have to slap me?


























Good night!








We don't need champagne!



What a great idea to drink something, 'cause this champagne... it wasn't playful at all.
















































































































































































All the worse.






It's the first time I've seen it.




































Glad to be back.






Then I'd better get a new notebook.

My dear Peggy, if you're reading this...



Are you ready?
My dear Peggy, by the time you read this, I'll be in the urn at Woodtown Memorial Park Cemetery.





I was just like other ordinary American flesh and blood sausages working in big cities.
Living most of the time in my hole, I naturally liked the idea of taking some fresh air.


It's nothing more than trying to explain to you why after the past month... you'll never be able to seduce me again... for another fun, happy, carefree vacation of all families-- God, have mercy on us all and on each and every one of us.








It's just a day when a man literally lacks the strength to endure this bunch of his dear kids.




Just a couple of old lovers are free again, only in each other's society, and, from time to time, a ship's flight attendant.








Don't you want to listen to me for a minute, darling?

Tell your daddy to drink at home and have a look after him later.





It's not stupid, Katie, and I have to say it's not very beautiful of you to think of any place on earth other than Paris as stupid.







Oh, no, honey.













- I'm sorry, darling, but that's out of the question. Let's leave it.

- I'm hugging and kissing, sweetheart. Goodbye.











It's big enough for the whole family.
- Wait a minute, honey...



But, honey, that's not what I was planning.
Do you realize this could be the last time we can get together?















But I know Katie doesn't need me, and Susie doesn't need me, and Janie doesn't need me.
And all Danny wants from me is a new Playboy every month.





Have you noticed how pale the kids are in this last photo?
Honey, everyone in the photo looks pale, even cannibals.






What did he say, darling?








When Mr. Hobbs assembled his family, his mood began to improve actively in anticipation of a happy family reunion on the seashore.

- It's a lot worse.










You little monster!































Last time I saw a light bulb like this, I was seven years old.










































Honey, are you gonna feel better if I go over there and put this throttle back and forth?
Ah, Rod, darling.











They called it "The West's Greatest Brag."








It's like we're home right now, darling.
- Good night, sweetheart.
- Good night.






Then his strong, skilled fingers... with the accuracy of the surgeon entered into the first confident contact with the control valves.





Step by step without one wrong move or a moment's hesitation... he was inexorably moving towards a new triumph in man's endless struggle with the machine.

















I need to go get a plumber.









Nice to meet you.









It's a very simple little pump.



It's the easiest little pump in the neighborhood.
It's good to see you, Mrs. Hobbs.





- What's wrong with you, sweetheart? - Nothing.







Beautiful day, isn't it?






They print beautiful jewelry commercials.




















You'll be happy to meet them here.








Is it big?
- Who's the big guy? - Like the National Bank or something?
Oh, yeah. The biggest one in St. Louis.


You know, they're not just mine. I'm not gonna take them away from you, darling.
















Maybe we could have a little party around here sometime, maybe in bathing suits?


Yes, darling?

- What kind of dancer is she? - She's just a big kid.








That was the last straw.

























- It's because of the new records.
- What new records?





But what are we gonna do, sweetheart?











Why is this little monkey here laughing so loud, she forgot she has records or something.




















- Come on, darling. - I don't love you.

- Don't you want to hug Boompa, darling?
























Mom! Oh, honey.







- Ah, Mother! - Oh, it's so good to see you!










When was the last time that happened?
Well, for the last time, at Janie's wedding.


Family is a very important thing.
It's a very important thing.
Each of you is important to all of you, and, of course, to your mother and me, and when you were young, and now.


Because the most important thing in life is family. Is that all I want?

Yes, darling. I'm afraid until you grow up, that's all.





















- Good night.
- But, honey, please... - I'm not feeling very well, Dad.




- New plates.


New plates. Let's raise our glasses and drink to our family.
















- You hear that, darling?










But let's make one last effort and have a sip for our family, huh?
- Hey! - Peter, darling.
You don't have to worry.
- Honey, go play with Flopsey.












- I think you need to be more strict about this kind of...



It's okay, honey.







It's okay, honey.







We don't think children need to say no.



If I want to smoke in this house, do I have to stand by the fireman's shelf?


All I know is that I used to smoke while you were little, and none of you have gone mad yet.




But, Susie, you don't have to make a big deal out of it.


















The other one becomes a hermit because he's got little wires in his mouth.


Oh, Rod, don't talk about it again.






I knew my cute little girl named Susie, and another freckling little monkey named Janie.


They were two cute little girls, weren't they?
- Well, they didn't die, darling.






Stan is the one who needs a haircut.















Honey, what could you ask a biophysicist about?



Bless your nasty little heart.



Listen, darling.





- Oh, honey.
- So we need to get out of here before they tell us to get out.



And everyone will be happy.
Good night, darling.





Honey.



- Good night.
- Good night.










I don't think I can handle the first paragraph.






























Yeah, well, the first time, but then, of course...














- Thank you very much, sir.























































Easy, sweetheart.





It's good to see you here, Hobbs.













- Thank you so much for this lovely holiday.





















- I hear you're an old sailor, too?





But what you needed was, of course, a spatterbox.









Easy, please.



But it has to be a new girl you haven't danced with yet.

After the third drum, you invite a new girl to the dance.
Are you ready?



Some people look at the spatterbox as a child's toy, and to some extent I agree with them, but they always need strong hands to control them.
An old sea wolf like you wouldn't want to spend so much time studying, it might be very difficult.






- Yes, darling?














You can't say Katie's not as good as those little scares.



















- Come on, I need a drink.







You know, the most beautiful thing about a spatterbox is...







Little monster.
Honey, don't you think you should go sit with her or something?







- My name is Mr. Hobbs. - Nice to meet you, sir.

- But it's just a matter of time, honey.






I want to go home. Okay, darling.





























- Mostly.



































Good night.
- Good night.






Good night. - Goodbye.





- Nice to meet you, Joe.
- Good night.
Good night, Mr. Hobbs.
- Good night.
- Good night, Joe.
Did you have a good time, sweetheart?

Oh, Rod, darling.











This baby is too old for me.





















But he's gonna order a new phone in San Francisco.
You know what you both need to do?
If there's an open church, I'll be ready in five minutes.


Well, honey, I'm not gonna do anything with the spatterbox until I know what it is.
It's a boat, darling.

























We have to go on the boat.



But since he was involved in such a big regate...









This story is as old as the world.
Once again, my husband is the last to know.



He... he went to Carmel with his old classmates.


- Good night, sweetheart.
- Good night, Daddy.

Yes, darling, of course.














I think your dad's right, darling.



Your old room is still waiting for you, you know.
We can put Peaby and Peter in Janie's old room next to Daddy.






- Of course not. You don't have to worry.





























You just don't know what it's like to be out of work for so long... with your wife and the two little kids you have to take care of.














- Let's go upstairs, darling.










You little monster.




You're lucky you're going on your first sailing trip... with a regular Bermood Cup member like your father.
It's probably gonna be a little hard for you at first, after the big things you used to walk on before.




- Exactly. The sails are brand-new.
- First of all, you need to pay attention to one thing.





































































- It's beautiful, isn't it?



















- I had to bring a compass with me.














































After the crash... a lifeboat was dropped from the big ship, but it was too late.















But we made too many circles.



The captain of a tanker heading south reported that he had seen a small boat on Thursday, shortly after noon.







You see, if you're in a fog, you have to move around.


















Just to be clear, it wasn't more unexpected to anyone than it was to me, son.




































My family has two or three new complexes a week.












Cookie's not only overpaid, but she doesn't even have to pay for the apartment. She gets food for free, she doesn't pay for light, heating, TV, and clothes, except for her underwear.
And, most importantly, she doesn't have to cook.































Yes. - It's awfully nice of you to invite us.





Yeah, two big ones for me and two smaller ones for Mrs Turner.




- Thank you very much.

- We're so glad you're here.





But don't you think the road to your house would have to be repaired?























Big brown spots.


I think your big problems can be solved easily.
There's no reason to be stupid about sports, fresh air, and sunshine when you can devote yourself to something as important as drinking.

Something nice, cold and big?
Or a little bottle of something stronger?





Uh... darling, what are you gonna drink?


































- Okay, darling.





You like him too, darling.














































You have nothing to worry about, darling, because if something goes wrong, the only thing that's gonna happen is that I'm gonna live in the same house as a little asshole.
Good night.
Good night.

It's the worst thing you can think of.

It's the first commandment of a bird observer.












You need to bend them a little, like this.














To walk, you need shoes close to your foot. - See?












The first species to appear during the day.





Beautiful bird.






















It's a big blue heron.








I don't think you need to worry, darling.





All right, darling.

We need to stay away from this man.
- Good night. - Good night.















Honey, the entrance valve's downstairs, in the kitchen.



























I need someone outside to let me out of here.
























I need to go get my glasses.











- Only my little mini, it's on the hook. - Your little... what?
- My little little nightgown, on that hook on the door.
Wouldn't it be very shameless to go through the living room in my little old nightgirl?






















- It doesn't matter anymore!













Oh, honey.

Oh, honey.




Honey...










Listen, honey, I...



































But you won't have to, honey.



It's okay, honey.



Thank you, darling.




















You're so cute.














- You don't have to love him.
No one needs me, just me.




Katie, darling.















You see, darling, for husbands who have cute wives, there's only one rule:





























No, actually, Katie doesn't need you.

And Danny only needs you to bring him Playboy every month.
You know, I'm very proud of you, darling.







- Yeah, honey, we're home.

































I needed to talk.












Sorry, honey. I was too sharp!



















Too bad you don't have to go any further.







































- You're not gonna take the old one?








































I don't really need it on the yacht, but when you get through the bowl...













































- Ten minutes one.



- Big.






























You don't think she's needed? Try without her.














































Need any help?







- Yes. It takes character.







































Now she's gonna show you her beautiful voice.










You don't need words, you don't need a moon,
We don't need stars if we don't have love.


You don't need me anymore, trust me,
















With a big boat, 12 meters.















































It's nice to have new friends.










I need my knife, and I want it back.








































































Both have new families.












- You ready?

Yeah, yeah. I'm ready.


























"A 19-year-old boy is missing." And we're all gonna be sick.









- It's a bad joke.



























I've been wandering around town for the first two days.












It's a beautiful wall, guarding the peace of the couple.



Hope for a new Germany.















That's a nice name.



All the small towns look alike. A foreigner's arrival...










































Okay, darling. Andre's offering coffee in the garden.




Andre is glad I can speak French to you.









They were a perfect complement to each other, they were always smiling, they were happy to live together in this house, they were sitting here with me right now, talking about what they were interested in.







But this beautiful day broke the disaster.






































I was happy.


Of course I didn't take them to expensive restaurants because they knew I wasn't rich.































- Beautiful, isn't she?

I smiled, I was happy, because I got what I wanted.





















You're writing about a new Europe, aren't you?





























My little Alben.
My little Alben, don't pout like that.



♪ Oh time, stop your flight and you happy watch ♪














I dreamed of my own little revenge.











He's happy.







He says it's very important, and I say no. You certainly don't understand that.





















I saw it, and I shouldn't have said it.












I started reading morality and my old story again.





































No, I'm happy to do you this little favor in exchange for all the good you've done for me.









My little crime ended in victory.

































































Shut up, you old cow!




















































My father died when I was a kid.






















It was my first time with her.






It's nice of you to tell me all this, Alben.










For a moment, I was ready to burn my ships.



















On the one hand, I needed confidence.



















- Hartman only talked about his new book.




The old warrior...













Impressive, happy. I've never seen her like this before.


I was ready to go after her to hell.











Hartman was happy, calm, kind.












Everything was ready now.




It was important for the next phase of my operation.
































































































































This new anesthetic slows the heartbeat.






















- Everything's ready upstairs.





- See you later, darling.











It's a big win, Professor.




























- I hope you'll be very happy in my house.
Honey, I'll be happy with you anywhere.




Come on, darling.








Wait, honey.






Go, darling, sit down.


















You must be hungry, darling.








Come on, darling. I'll go upstairs with you.














- Good night, love.
- Good night.


Good morning, darling.








But, darling, that's absurd, who would do that?




Forgive me, darling, returning to the clinic after all these years... I'm nervous, I'm sorry.


Sorry, honey.


- Be ready by 8:00.






Yeah, it's a great performance.



Excuse me, urgent call from the clinic, I need to go immediately.


- See you later, darling.





I see medicine is as attractive to you as a beautiful woman.










Good night.
Good night.























Good night.

Do you need anything?










I know, darling, that you loved her... but please try to understand - wherever I go, her eyes look at me, watching me.

I have to go.
























- No, thank you, I have to go to the clinic.



I'm afraid I have to go back to the hospital.
Do you really have to go?




Nonsense, darling, I'm just a little worried. My hands aren't as skilled as they used to be.



All right, darling, whatever you want.


When I get back, I'll come by and say good night.

What do you want, Dr. Kurt?






It doesn't matter anyway.

I've been looking for you to say good night.








The one behind the big mirror.
There's my old lab, and I want it locked up.





Good night.












Professor, O.R.'s ready.









Now she's obsessed with thinking that I don't love her anymore, that she's still in love with her first wife, and that Margaret's ghost is stalking her.






What's wrong with Cynthia being in my house?



How are you, darling?



Nothing, darling.
You've been feeling bad for the last few days, and tonight you fainted, look at the state of your clothes.




Honey, drink this, it'll help you sleep.





































We need to investigate him, and if it's just milk, you'll see the absurdity of your suspicions.































































We're heading in the right direction, partner.


















































































- That's bad, buddy.

My first client.















And one more thing. Robbery and other worse things are about to start.



































Really bad.

I think the first hit was on the administration building.





























Look, honey, two plus two now isn't equal to four.


At the moment, we need to have food to protect it and a way to find more when it's over.






Look, it's falling into little pieces.





The best part is to find a small store, away from the road where people don't know what happened yet.



- What do you want?















Big bag.











We need a big bag of dry beans.



We need coated milk and a big can of pastry fat for the heat.



I need matches and two boxes of candles.































Now they need homemade goods.















Now go, darling.






















We need him now.
























Robbing and beating people like the last bastard.







In your concept, cultural people don't start fighting first.


























We'll be on the air with new news in two hours.











- Because people are willing to pay.





Maybe a beautiful watch.







Maybe I'll need a cover.








What do you want?

We don't want any trouble.

































































































- Come on, darling.
























Is it big?


How big is it?



I need help.












Yes, darling, attacks.







Not bad.
Not so bad.




























These manifestations of civilization are very important.

And thanks to them, we'll be less afraid.

















That's because I'm scared too, darling.

















- Yes, darling.























- Maybe I'd be fine without you, too.





































But there's nothing worse than the future without hope, so I keep hoping.
I need to know that there are other people like us, like our children.

















Not a bad idea.

It's a beautiful copy.













Of all people, these were the ones that needed to be our neighbors.
















Honey, it's okay.
Honey, don't cry.

It's okay, honey.

















It's okay, honey.













Don't you think we should've gotten away with it?











































We don't have time for any more.






I've been looking for the worst in others, and I've found it in me.





It's gonna take time, but she's gonna be okay.


Go talk to her, darling.














Thank you very much.






















- What's the matter, darling?















A lot of bad people listen to the radio, too.







Not a bad choice.







- What, honey?




I just wanted to find you, darling.
It's boring to live on an old farm without you.









It's a bad way to talk to a man with a gun like that.




Is he really bad?
Very bad.


He needs a doctor.





















What do you want?


We need help.



It doesn't matter why.













The boy needs blood.
You need to get him to Wheaton for a transfusion.







They'll need me.


It's important not to waste time.




Money is the first thing that doesn't make sense.





- Keep it. You need it.
































What do you want?











- He needs blood now.






































You'd be doing me a big favor if you took a quick look.






Then why don't you take a look at these nice trinkets?
















Do you have to make this scene right now?





It's gone bad, and I still have to get this over with...

























- He's cute.















































I've never seen a Channel like this before.
























Maybe I've never seen anything more beautiful.


I need to sleep.






















































I only have four days. The biggest one is 5.
Then you'll have to look for a job.






























- The first person I spoke to is teaching me to say "erore," which means "failure." How strange...






- Your city is beautiful.






You'll see how beautiful it is.






I have to go.





You need to go to the Foreign Workers' Office in San Lorenzo.


















What was I supposed to buy?











All I need is here.




















We need to go outside and be among the people.












What do I need here?










They need to allocate time properly, solve problems, lie to their relatives, sometimes even display their own charms and imagination.




And one day she'll take her place in society.













I swear he's gay.





- I need your advice.










































































And there's nothing new about it.
So one day you decided to put an end to all this?






















He's got a name... very nice.




















Beautiful.








You should be happy.























Do you know the old log house in Hildesheim?













Imagine this absolutely white face: skin, hair, little colourless eyes.



























That's why he told me this old story.

















































Maybe I'll have to leave this afternoon.














































I need the money.






























From here, there's a beautiful view of Venice.











And the other half was ready to send me to hell.




It's beautiful!









Is there something important going on in Venice today?


One big shot makes a visit to another big shot.
Two big shots together.















- In the old state library...

























Beautiful.


And then I don't have to look at that postcard anymore.










- Old map of the world. - Yes.























Yeah, I need to get back to the hotel.







- Is it that important?





















- Dinner's ready, sir.
























But you tell her too much about me, O'Malley, and it'll only make you feel worse.
















This is my first real dinner since I left Milan.





































Now he needs some fresh air.








































In the same cases I'm interested in, for beautiful women, everything ends up in the Grand Canal with a slit throat.























I have to go. I'm holding you back.















We agreed that you would escort me to the first bridge.















- Why would you do that?






































It looks more expensive than it actually is.




























If you press the button, you'll get worse. I'll explain to the police...


























































































- I don't have all the papers yet.








It's like they're competing who's first...

I really need you.








































































And I knew this boat would be your last hope of escape.

























































































"You can't even imagine who's the worst of all."






















If I wanted to run away, didn't I have to talk to you?
What do you want here?






















"You can't even imagine who's the worst of all."
I mean, the Commandant could be the worst of all.






























What do you want?







He's not what we need.


If you need a job, you'll find me at the Commandant's.

It's okay.






































It's a lot, and it's big.

































- That's the first time I've been accompanied.














You want to save the lady, but more importantly, save the Treasurer.








































Things are bad.























































I shouldn't have said that after saving, but killing people is bad.













































Your father is an old tricky fox.

















Camelia. She's beautiful, isn't she?



























































That's not good.
If the clan is calm, we can't do anything.

























































































With so few guards, you need help.
We're ready to help you.






































































- I need Muroto.

















































Wait. We don't need a crack.






























































































It's beautiful!








































They overrated us, it's bad.




















Our last attempt.









My dear, that's a great idea!


Red Camel as a signal! That's gotta be great.





I need Muroto.
Bad!























































































Easy. Just the white ones.


Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!

It's beautiful!














Darling, call him.












































I need this.


























You're gonna need to speak on the Sunday paper...











What will be Bernard's first words, whose testimony saved me?














As soon as the vacation started, I spent all my days here under the care of a deaf old lady, Aunt Clara.
I hated the game that Anna enjoyed so much, so innocent and happy.

Was I so happy or so honest?


To become as clean as Anna, who was raised in a convent, I didn't need all these ribbons and vows of celibacy.









































































































Turns out it's you, darling, picking out a place where I've been able to experience such happiness.














The more I think about it, the less I get it.


Azevedo was already very important when our ancestors, poor shepherds, were shaking with fever among their marshes.



















You're a fool, my dear.











When we get to that pass I got to together, I'm gonna have to remind him of those few weeks in St. Claire... with my new family.















Is it hard for you, darling?










I didn't have to ask this girl if she was unhappy.












Bernard was then the first to experience the perplexity inherent in the people of such a warehouse.



































The first wahiri were carried over their heads.


























Before going on a dark journey from the old Arzelus house, I provided Anna with a range of illusions to save her from despair.
I should have been annoyed by Jean Azevedo's pretentiousness, but the clarity of his thoughts was so new to me.

























It's so nice of you to have done it, at least you're not on your way.











Jean Azevedo would be the first man I've ever met to whom intelligence mattered.





















Isn't that beautiful?
Fine, yeah!

























'Cause the day started out bad.






It's bad for the baby.

Surely, if the worst had happened, he would have sacrificed me for this child.

Good night, sir! Good night, madam!






























She's tired, she needs a rest.


























She's so sweet, our little Marie.



















It was the day of the big fire near Mano.



























The first day I, before Bernard walked into the dining room, injected Fowler's pill into his glass, I remember saying to myself,



What happened then, Bernard knows as well as I do.




We need to get a better doctor from Bordeaux.





I had to get out of this asphyxiating darkness and clean air.
In early December, a new cry came, more serious than the previous one.














Someone's first criminal hand added Fowler's Caps.







We need to hospitalize him as a matter of urgency.


Now that I'm ready to meet Bernard, my story, so carefully reconstructed, is falling apart.
























There can always be a new fact.

It is important for the family that we be considered as living in marital harmony.




















The rest doesn't matter.









































Monsieur Bernard cancelled the order, said it didn't matter.














Bernard wrote that he would be back soon, and was very pleased to hear from Ballon's messages that everything in Argelouse was safe.
Aren't you glad that Mademoiselle Anna was engaged to a young Degile in Bolje?





I'll make you a great celebrity!







But it's all very simple. The weather was bad, I didn't get out at all.























Think of him first.








































Yeah, on the day of the big fire near Mano.































For the last time, I'd like to apologize to you, Bernard.



Every generation Desquire had his old bachelor.





It's not a rock town I love, but it's a living forest, it's torn apart by such fierce passions that no storm can compare to it.


Maycomb was a tired old city, even in 1932, when I first recognized him.














He'll be happy to see you.





































I'm too old for this.









Atticus says he's too old.
Every time I want something, he's too old.
He's too old for everything!









- Jem, he's pretty old.





If you need to read anything, I can do it.






I'm small, but I'm an adult.




She sent my picture to the Beautiful Child pageant and won five dollars for me.














He'll let me run the train all the way to New Orleans.

































































Have you seen anything more beautiful?





"I have two cats... that I took to shore... on my first raft.








No more reading today, darling.














- Good night, Scout.
- Good night.
- Good night, Jem. - Good night.








Was mom beautiful?













The grand jury will meet tomorrow to press charges.


And your children need time.














- I'm first!
I'm first!
- I'm first!
I'm first!







- Ready?























The grand jury is accusing his client today.














































































































































- Good night.
Good night.
- Good night, Atticus.












I came to see if Gene Louise was ready for her first school day.


- You ready, too?













I think you really like your dress, sweetheart.


I still don't understand why I have to wear this puppy old dress.

- I'm ready!






It's your first day. You want to be late?
- I'm ready.









He gave me a bad first impression!



Your dad, Mr. Walter Cunningham of Old Serum?

We'd love to see you.






We've been eating squirrels and rabbits lately.








How old were you when you got your first gun, Atticus?



























Well, Scout, it's just day one.





After all, she teaches the first day and she's new here.










































































Don't be afraid of him, son.









- Good night, Jem.
Good night, Cal.




I'm too old and too big for children's fun.




















































I found all this... in the bottom of that old tree at different times.

































I hear you can expect trouble from that old serum company.

























Heck and his company in Old Serum are looking for us.
We knew about it, so let's go another way.


































Restriction of possession is bad.

Atticus, I just wanted to tell Mr. Canningham that limiting possession is bad, but don't worry.





























































































































There's an old chiffonier in the garden, and I say,















Was that the first time you asked him to come outside the fence?






































And if you, great fashionable gentlemen... aren't gonna do anything about it, then you're all just a bunch of lousy, yellow, stinky cowards!
















































































































She needs to get rid of Tom Robinson.






Not an old uncle, but a strong young nigger.





























I'll go see Helen first thing tomorrow morning.


























The last thing I said to him, don't lose his head, we'll make an appeal.

















Spence, no more appeal.










































I hear the old dog barking.






I bet it's just old Cecil Jacobs trying to scare me.
Cecil Jacobs is a big wet chicken!




















































Are you saying good night to Gem, Mr. Arthur?






I guess what needs to be done, it's--



















In my understanding, to take the man who has done you and the city a great favor and to drag him out, with his shyness, to the center of attention--





























































It used to be important to tell you everything, but not now.

But the more we talk, the less you want to say.






It's like your English, you didn't need it.















They'll be ready at the end of the week.





Your parents will be glad I left. - No, they liked you.













An eight-year-old girl picked up a chicken.



































































All the worse.
















- What's new from Wednesday?










I have to be in London on Sunday.





















































































































































- Are you okay?













- Nope. And you're very beautiful.
















When I asked you what you thought of me, I didn't need an answer like a confession.







- Do you really need this? - Yes.






You're beautiful.
















Prostitutes attract everyone by their charms, try to earn as much as possible, find customers more expensive, and make them comfortable.
Is it important to be beautiful?

Beauty helps a prostitute take a proper place in the hierarchy and attracts more attention from her clients. Her physical data is a source of income.
Do we need to register?







































































- You're so cute.





Dmitri? That's a nice name.























































And when I have to say, bam, and I can't say anything.







And then one day, I had to drop a bomb in the dungeon.












Do you always have to say that?













































Plato noticed that, though the idea was old.














It takes effort.










The body needs to be invaded. Leibnitz introduced the notion of accident.




































In fact, those who admired the portrait spoke of a wonderful resemblance and cited, as evidence of the artist's talent, that by drawing his love, he so expressed her that she went out in a devilishly beautiful way.
































The girl first.














Thank you all very much.
It's gonna be the last one. Deal?





My dear daddy, I miss you and I love you very much.


Thank you very much.


Jane, isn't she a beautiful doll?
Thank you, young man. It's a beautiful doll.







Very beautiful, with natural hair.















But remember, this is the last time this week.








You're happy, Blanche. Really.












































Not to mention a couple of less spicy advertising tricks... before the so-called film was ready.
You don't have to talk to Jane.














She's a wonderful man, Ben.


















- Hey, honey.






Sorry to intrude on the beautiful old Blanche Hudson movie.








Let me remember... your father took me to the old Majestic cinema...


Actually, honey, Blanche Hudson is only a few years older than me.











It was all a long time ago, darling.














I should have made this plan longer.



















You must be proud of her new record... I mean, on television.
It's so nice to see all her old movies again.
















































She seems to have gotten better lately.















" Yesterday my husband and I watched your lovely old movie.
'The last honeymoon'
I told my husband that seeing you again was like meeting an old friend..."
That's cute!
That's so sweet!


















In fact, in the last month, she's gotten a lot worse.

You said that in the last month... she'd gotten a lot worse.























































Yeah, it's fine.













Tell me what's going on, 'cause I'm just a kid.
Okay, Blanche Hudson, Miss Big Fat Cinnamon.



















































Coming, darling!























Oh, Miss Hudson. It's so good to see you.












This Jane Hudson is so pissed at me that I'm ready to kill her.














I bought this house for the two of us when I signed the first contract.




















We don't need Elwire.






Can I talk to nice Dr. Shelby, please?



I don't need a doctor, Blanche!




He didn't prescribe you new drugs?


Nope. But he's such a nice man.










Looks like it's a lucky ticket.






























- What do you want this time?














































































It's a terrible burden for such a little girl.























Today everyone needs new numbers-- on TV, in Las Vegas, in clubs--





The costumes? Yes. I gave up the old costumes so they could be copied.



How can you remember? But I need your opinion.







My dad collected them from my first performance.















Never. I'm glad you have a friend.
You need this.









The writing of music. Is this gonna be your first meeting with show business?




















- I sometimes try to explain to her that if you want to do something outstanding in serious music, you need an appropriate atmosphere.












Yeah, it's not as important as a relationship between people.










Why don't you come with me? I need to get my costumes, and then we'll go to lunch.





Your neighborhood is very nice.





I need help. Is the doctor there?









Come on in. I need you here.

I need your help. Come on in.

































I know, but I'm free tonight, so I thought I'd stop by and see if I needed help.
You don't have to.





Blanche wants to rent a smaller house on the beach.



You don't have to pay me.
















Beautiful.


















I need help around the house.












- It doesn't matter!





Doesn't matter whose house this is.



























You're not coming back too late, honey?























...you have to say good night.
- Good night.























































We're gonna go to the seaside and live like we used to when I was little and daddy was alive.










































Good night.






It's nice, and we're gonna be friends again.















Well, Jane, talk to nice Mr. Flagg. And sweet Mr. Flagg will get his money in a minute.







































- Old Lincoln with a screwdriver?




































































We want to find your sister because she might need help.













My power is great, and I am the lowest guard.









" Everyone needs the law," says the old man.





























































































Ravensteiner, what are you doing here?





































Your breakfast is ready.







And I take it personally, maybe more than I should.






















































































She has to be dressed, well-dressed by midnight, by the first exit.
























If anyone's gonna give up their apartment, I'm gonna go first. Good night, Mrs. Grubach. Good night.































This old witch sleeps and sees how to throw me out.







Excuse me, excuse me, who needs your apology?




No one wants me, and you know me.









He made little sips out of my glass to get me drunk. Excuse me.

What's the point of apologizing and making it worse to feel guilty if you didn't do anything?




















































































Says she's got a big case.











I'm already in a position. I can't get any worse.

If she doesn't understand, then you don't need a girl like that.









You give hope, young man, great hope.







































Then go your way.



















But she's not small anymore. I'm sure she's been kissed before.








She's got a big, nice room, and I'm dark, cold, damp, in one word, all the inconveniences.









































What happened to me doesn't matter.





















I would like to emphasize that you have given up on your own today all the advantages that the investigation is willing to offer to the accused. Well, wait for me.



























































































The machine needs economics, sociology, psychological data.





















We've got a lot of time at night, and after 11 o'clock, everyone's gonna show you around.



Maybe someone needs her, but not for practical purposes. Easy, Uncle Max.


We need him on a very important case.

















It's me, your old friend.







Yeah, the power's bad. Who's that?



Really? Isn't that right, sweetheart?












































Oh, my God, of course, we're honored.





First of all, we have to prepare the first appeal.



































It's not the first time I've been young. I don't like her.






















In life, it's not that big, on the contrary, a little, almost midget.

I'm vain too, and I'm offended that you like me less than...




He usually sits on a kitchen stool and puts an old horse hair mat under him.






At the first chance you can confess everything, then you may have the hope of getting out of these cleavages.





Leni, darling.






Won't you turn around? In the spirit lawyers' room. One little light under the ceiling.



Not too big, a man wouldn't fall into it, but if he accidentally hits a hole, he's gonna hang out in the lower hallway.





Yeah, it doesn't matter. Come here.
What do you mean it doesn't matter?










































































































































































































































Don't you need a lawyer?














































































I need you, too. Sit down.











































But I'm hardly gonna be accepted with such honor as the first time.






















































He's old, sick, or maybe he just doesn't care.













Thank you, you did what you could. I appreciate that, but I think I need more decisive steps.






The accused are really beautiful.












































































He's had a lot of experience, and in so many years he's learned how to use it.




































No, sweetheart, his client's fate is not mine.


















Just climbed under the blanket, and all of a sudden, little stinky paw behind my leg - to give a shit.











I'm writing a portrait, but it's not ready yet.
































































You have to give orders, do interviews, collect new evidence, and so on.




































Your case is taking a bad turn.
The first appeal has not yet been considered.










Women have a lot of influence. At least take the investigator. Once he sees a woman, he's ready to jump over the table and over the defendant's head just to grab her by the skirt.


















We all heard. The beggar has grown old, ready to release his spirit, but everything is waiting.
































































































I have to be in the bar by 11:00!

























You have to ask a lot of questions and thereby ruin your life's joy!




















Isn't the star blanket ready yet?








And you're happy?








But look at this -- this is what a happy man looks like!



Beautiful! The champagne is in the ice... the lady.











































What do you want? And I'm so fucking cold!









































Because the thought is more important than action... but it'll come down soon!




What's wrong with the boot? That's why the pleasure wasn't so great...






























I just need to ask the gatekeeper something.











But the glassmaker's gonna do just as well.



















The murder case is nothing... what's the worst? ..


















You can be perfectly calm...
















































What's it worth to you?



















We gotta get a bigger apartment!









A lot of people live a lot worse!

















Without air... it's like a lot of people are getting worse!


I don't care if I have a flower. And her absence is particularly painful for a person with a sense of beauty!























You have to be an angel for that!






























Now I have to go to my clients! Bringing each other to fines and jail...
























I'm going back to my first hell.
This second one is the biggest one!
The sweetest is the biggest hell...












I'm gonna have to do some doughnuts on the side!
























































I know... what I know! first of all, myself.


















Show yourself to Freken Agnes! Let's say as beautiful a girl... what she looks like now!





It's only gonna get worse!





Do you hear music and dancing at the hill? Beautiful!


















































How many twos are out of four? The one I loved, and so I wish her the greatest happiness on earth... I suffer! And I'm gonna snort with the boys:

You think I can be happy seeing you suffer?


































That such a big boy doesn't have any ambition...
Big... much bigger than all of them.







You have to grow...

































You old fool!



















Isn't there a happy man in this paradise?































































But... first you have to open the door and find out the secret... to open the door!


































































You can hear all this in a small sink... what you can hear in this big one!










































































































Is it that important?






Beautiful!




































































































































































































































































What do you want?
You know what I need.



So what do you want from me?






I need you.





















I'm marrying a beautiful woman, not a beast!








I'll drink first.




Doesn't matter:








And if there is, it's all the worse for you!














































It's bad luck.
















































At the birth of the new union, the first son will be born.
At the birth of the new union, the first son must be born!
The first son must be born!
























I'm glad we met and talked to you, Puri.




























He looked healthy and happy!



























Beautiful eggs were planted in the henhouse.
Sitting up with a beautiful chicken.













































- Good morning, dear sunshine.
- Good morning, dear sunshine.





When the new resurrection comes, let all evil set me free.
When the new resurrection comes, let all evil set me free.











We need to think of something else.













































































With the clouds coming, the harbingers of the storm, all the peasants go to the planted fields. Because the only ancient magic they're willing to use comes from the rain going over these fields.
One:

































































We need to cover our tracks so no one can guess.







No one needs to know you're here.





What do you want?
What do you all want?












































It looks calm.





































You don't have to do things like that anymore if you want to heal.


All you have to do is say. Do you know what to say?






If you want to stay here, you have to change.

























You old monster!

































To free yourself, you have to burn the witch.
On the night of the big witches, the witches must be burned.


They must be from an old, dried-up tree.

And the older the fields, the more their smoke spreads.





































We only want to read what's been taken with all the gaps and non-consensuals. Let's try to understand the meaning of the narrative, everything that was alive and important in it.






The world turns to it with a warm smile and a warm welcome, ready to be served and not interested in where it came from and where it is headed.




It's Europe. The last parking lot in the English port.




My stay at the camp wasn't what you think, my dear Walter.


I didn't do anything wrong to anyone.





I had an internship with a working team serving large warehouses outside camp.












I found out that her fiancé, Tadeus, was being held in the camp, and on the pretext that we needed to clean up the books, I transferred him to me.




After all, our soldiers on the front were even worse.





















But the feelings of a husband who learned too late about his wife's past aren't really very important. Apparently, the director wanted to give Lisa the opportunity to tell someone the first, lofty and noble version of her and Martha.




There are fragments left: happy passengers and among them Lisa... here she notices Martha and tries to make sure it's her.






She didn't need my favor to be happy.















You know what you have to do?





But I knew that someone who could give or take away the most expensive would become the owner of the position.




























































You can give them a prisoner who has to answer questions the way you need to.






- I'm ready for punishment.









































Maybe they thought it was the last time they saw each other. But what do I care about these antidotes?

















My dear... darling...











I kiss your eyes so they can say to me, "Good night!"












The London Radio gave details of the latest transports.








































The last sentence isn't quite clear.
How Lisa was protected from compromise, how it affected Martha's future, the fate that she first told her husband, and now chose to avoid silence, leaving history unfinished.





























































Beautiful tandum.




She'll be happy to see me.



You're not the first to get out of the game after prison.















Take the money if you need it.












You need a manager.


Be cool, I'm not gonna give you presents. All right, let's get back to this conversation in 20 years.































One bad thing: he's got a dog, poodle. What else? I did everything you told me to do.






































Dear madam, you won't bother me and tell me where Maurice works.

Now, dear madam, be reasonable.
























Let's move to the first alley on the left, hurry up!








Dear Maurice, the last time I saw you, I said that years spent in prison didn't make any sense to you. You've become very weak. I told you to change the scene.

















You'll give this to Jean in case anything happens to me. But just Jean, okay? Be cool, Maurice.



















I can't imagine a man who's being held under his arms and who's killing another man who's been running all over the place since the first shot.
Also, Salinari was killed. I'm sure he shot first. Therefore, Sali cocked second, holding Rami under his arm.






















































What am I, a punk or something? If you want an explanation, come with a warrant. We'll send you a warrant in the mail.








And your beautiful house will come down slowly.











































The police have two hypotheses. One: An accident because she fell asleep driving. And second, the young woman was eliminated so she wouldn't be able to report anything to the police.

















































With that, you'll be in jail for at least fifteen years. You know, 15 years is a long time.



















































I can't see you, and more than that, I want to tell you something.








Tell me what kind of information you need, and I'll see if I can help you.







Try to remember, it's important.






























































Now I've got these gems in my hand, and I need a certain amount of money.




It's not the first time I've given money to friends who need it.

I need two million.













Yeah, yeah. I got everything I need in the drawer.
































He told me she was a great informant.




















And the continuation cost me a cape. It's almost new.




Anita said Dr. Luke took care of you. At least for that, I went to look for your passport again.






Clan and his boys wanted to know where you were hiding from me. They've put me in a lot of trouble. I decided to tell them where you are to get them off my back.













I've settled in Pontieri, and I have a beautiful house on the hill. I think I'll drop everything.



So I'm the last bastard?




































- Good night.
- Good night.
Good night, Miss Wright.





































I don't know what's going on, but her last homework was so bad.












Just an old dump.




A big wall on one side, a house on the other and nothing in the middle.




































Thank you very much.













- Good night.
- Good night.
Good night, Susan.









I've seen worse.




























































Come on, let's get this over with.












































What do you want?
















































































































You're saying you can't fit a huge building into one of your little living rooms.







































When he saw the first steam train, that savage thought it was an illusion, too.
































The last five months have been the happiest of my life.
















Your arrogance is as great as your ignorance.

























All you have to do is take their word that they won't tell...














I think I need to clean my clothes before I go out.




























































- Oh, it's beautiful.





































Don't look at me like that, young man.






























Well, are we ready?
























I'll find out more when I get downstairs.




























Thank you very much.





































- My dear boy, these eternal questions of yours.



























































Well, one click and bacon ready and eggs ready.


















































- Oh, no, you don't.

All we have to do is fill it up.






















With the first light?











































































- There's nothing new under the sun.














































His head's empty now. His head wasn't ready for this.

And now in Lezurf's family, the husband is an asshole, and the wife is a beautiful whore.
Why do you need such clean air to be a messenger of nasty words spoken by humans?
Asphalt is not as beautiful as the earth.




















We have to say the password!



































"When I'm finally the happiest, your beautiful forehead is resting "on its trembling knee serving as his support








Hello, darling.
































Beautiful beast.






Take more.




















I know you wouldn't do anything like that without a good reason. I believe my dear uncle has done some injustice to you.










I know your fish is as good as beautiful and thank Marie, but I don't want any fish.



- No, honey.








- Claudia, darling. - Yeah?








Adrian, your patience is limitless, darling.









Dear Claudia, you have no idea how much trouble I'm in.









































So, on the first point, we'll take action.






















He explained to me how beautiful nature is.







I understand your condescension, my dear, but every day he puts us in an increasingly ridiculous position.
- You're exaggerating, darling.
- But you're exaggerating, darling.








My dear Hamlet, drop your black color,





























Napoleon One










































I need to pour my soul out.















I need to do what he does.

































































They thought I was here to kill their dear Adrian, and it was because of the hat and the scarf.
































Letters never mattered much.














































































I knew the creatures of the sweet and strange, the good and the righteous, which are now nothing more than dust.



Life is beautiful.





It's my first grave, but my father's been digging it for Z0 years.
Beautiful gravedigger. He's known here.






The concession has come to an end and we need to remove the corpse.








I need to make a film and I'd like you to play it.













































- Do you really want to see it? - Of course, my dear.






- I'm just happy. Kiss me.









- It's all set.








The trade hasn't been going too well lately.








And a great treachery of men.














































Maybe at this point he's making a new cover.




























I have no one but you, sweet Horatio.
Sweet Horatio...









Sweet Horatio...





















































I do.









Are you here to kill me, dear Uncle?






- But, my dear...






Less than I could have imagined.




























Do you think I'd be happy?

























I'm a big admirer of yours.
Nice to meet you.














































You see, at first sight, there's a lack of issues or, if you want, philosophical reasoning...
























I see you've already got gray hair, you old trickster!

She's only making it worse.













- Nice to meet you.



We even had a fight when I said bad things about your last movie.























I'm a big admirer of yours.






Actually, it's a big plan, but it's nothing more than that right now.


- Nice to meet you.










Soul heat? Of all the symbols the script is full of, this is the worst...




















- Very sweet, you're gonna love...
















It's all set. Room, bathroom.






















What a beautiful lady!




















Okay, now your sweetheart is very hungry.






You'll see, you old trickster.







He just needs to be pushed.














On that little street, Via della Croce, where I bought you the same tie as your wife.













Nope. You must have more makeup...
- How much bigger?


- Beautiful chandelier.






You know what beautiful letters he writes?


















































Is he sick?









Order must always be maintained.































It's so good to see you, Super Tarzan!








Why don't I write a new episode...



So now, to talk to you, I have to wear a jacket?




Beautiful!

You keep telling me I'm beautiful, but you never tell me about my role.



I'm gonna need three kilos.

























It's all set...










I'd like to introduce my little wife.















They're not old enough.














































Looks like you're a big optimist if you believe that in this world, trapped in chaos, people are so healthy that they can only take themselves to the left or to the right.
Americans have a new theory about cholesterol...
















Before I start shooting, I have to get into the image of my heroine...

I need to get into her image, understand her. Otherwise, I'm not gonna make it.









First cherry this spring.









Can you create something really beautiful, real on order?








How beautiful, elegant, smart.






















You look like a little snail.



The Romans called it Happy Water.


Are you ready, Maya?




























Don't worry, darling, it's no big deal.


A little kiss and a big slap.








So, Maya, are you ready?





































Do you know that if you swim, you'll grow up big and strong?










I could get married again, find myself a handsome man. He'd probably be a lot better than your grandfather.

I thought if I got married a second time, my first husband wouldn't be waiting for me in hell or paradise.









Aren't you beautiful?
The most beautiful! Kiss me.




















Good night, sir.
- Good night.



















Oh, don't tell me I'm beautiful.






Talk to me like you're an old friend of mine.

Have you seen my last movie?
















- You want Louise?


























- Good night, Guido.












Would you be happy about that?







You'd make me feel good. Good night.
Good night, sir.
Good night, Guido.







Do you need anything?















































Do you need anything, Guido?
Did you come up with a new idea?



I don't need anything right now.


What a good night!







Konocchia is old.








But if I'm gonna help you, like I used to, when you were happy to accept my help, you have to tell me something!








You need young blood.























































And I bought so many beautiful dresses.




















Nice to meet you.














- Maybe. There's a great responsibility on your shoulders.















One legend says that when Diomed died, these little birds gathered together to accompany him to the grave, singing a funeral sad song.






























But you don't need me anymore.


























It's a great opportunity, Guido. Cardinal!











Why should you be happy?

Who told you we came to this world to be happy?
















Who's the bigger one?












- Louise, darling.

I'm so glad you came.
It's always good to see you.




And you weren't having fun with all those beautiful women?







I can't say I've made much progress.




She's so cute, isn't she?













- What a beautiful little sister you have!

Nice to meet you, Producer.


Is this beautiful sorcerer in your harem too?








She was so happy.


















To listen to this director, you have to be a little crazy.



We'll be ready by 20:00.







She was so happy to see you.












Jancarlo wrote him such a beautiful script about the Martians.







I'll stop at the end of the first flight. I'm afraid of heights.





















Looks like Guido was happy to see you. Seriously.












































































Look, Louise, I'm really glad you came, but I'm really tired and sleepy.

Good night.















































No, honey, I'm not laughing.














You have great taste.












What a sweetheart!
And this is my dear half-sister, 'cause she finally figured out how it's supposed to be.
















He wants me to visit him for New Year's Eve. Just for the day. Do you mind?







You're so cute.



Oh, darling!




I'm glad I'm here.



















I don't need anything.
















- Are you happy, girls?





We're happy to invite our passengers to spend the night in Copenhagen due to engine problems on the plane.


Good night.







What beautiful thin legs.
















































































He needs it.


But, darling, you're hurt;

- I don't need cream. - Then balsam.
- I don't need balm.






You're old.
We're glad we had the opportunity to live with you, and we wish you luck upstairs.
We'd like to remind you that you were Guido's first dancer.














My dear, happiness can tell the truth without making anyone suffer.
Carla could play the harp, as usual, and we'd be happy living here, away from the world.








Do you need anything?


Isn't it wonderful that we all live together?













But I think today you need to solve a problem that doesn't have a solution.











At the door. Always ready to run away.


















New and old movies, even the ones we shot five months ago.


















































But you don't need me anyway.





Well, she's very nice, emotional.




























Repeat the last sentence.













But they're so old!




















I'm the first one to know that.
It's a movie, a new illusion, a new lie.













We had to put a stop to it.




No, that's not necessary.


















You know it's dangerous, darling.







































I'm so glad we're gonna work together, and I hope I can help you.




You're so beautiful.































She's one of the nurses who gives patients treatment water. She's beautiful. Young and ancient.

















He meets a girl who can give him a new life, and he rejects it?


















We're gonna have the biggest movie ever.











Guido, I'm sure today will be a beautiful day.






















































































For him, a bad movie is just a financial question.


'Cause all we need is... it's hygiene, it's clean, it's okay.







We're ready.










Forgive me, lovely creatures.






































































A few questions, a little patience, that's all you need.












I'm so tired. Good night.














A taxi strike is a lie. It was six months ago, and the paper was old.



You're just a little prank.

- Here's the first smile.


- I love very expensive things.










"Dear beautiful stranger, I'm hungry.









So good night."


































Let me cry on your sweet breast.












She's very, very nice.























And don't yell, it's not that bad, you need it, too.









Go to bed, my little treasure.


































Right, I said, "She's very, very nice."







He doesn't look sexy at all. He's not pretty at all.



Lolotte never changes her first impression.





We need to get Elena to the airport soon.









































What a lovely smile.


Oh, I see what you need:




- That's great.

-... would you do me a little favor?
- Yes. - I need you to get something in your suitcase.






You'll see, they're no worse in life.










- I'm warning you, this little black object might get pissed off.















My red dress, it was brand-new.







Since I have to buy myself something new, I'm gonna need a lot of money.




















- He's cute.


It was her last flight, she's getting married.
I feel so bad.





He's cute.




























Good night.









Good night.


You know, when we fly, we always have to stay... so calm, unforgivable. So when we go back, we just need to laugh, we need to cry, be a little crazy.


































































You'll see, she'll be as burned as a little bun.



Thank you, thank you, thank you, ladies, for being so beautiful!


And what a beautiful neck she has.
And everything else is beautiful, beautiful, beautiful.




- We're old ladies.







































Elena, darling, let's talk seriously.



Elena, honey, aren't you attracted to this?
And prisons are very small, just tiny!




You'll come back old and sick.








And they said to me, "Bravo!" We need you because you don't have a heart.



- He's just a cute liar.












- I need to make a call.




- It's Tieber. I found what I needed.














And you got involved in the first time you got in your way, didn't you, Elena?



Second, her parents are very rich, and she doesn't need money.
Third, I need the money.



- When are you ready to go?






You won't have to send gold to Paris.

I'm an interesting girl, dear monsieur.





































Where's the prettier, here... or here?











































"I need Tiber's money. Give me the case."




It's a lot of money and it's not that big a risk.
You don't call that a big risk?

All this only happens in novels, sweetheart.


















I'll do whatever you want, darling.
Now I have to go to Lolotte.













If no one goes, he's gonna get in big trouble.














Come on, we need to go to your room.











If you want a brunette, go find yourself a brunette!


In honor of our new friend, Monsieur...

Monsieur Tiber and our old friends, in this case very old.











A picture of your angel will be ready any minute.
























She's happy because she's about to fly high in the sky.



And at dawn, the crew will board its beautiful steel machine, the plane.























































About the way we put this door, because before that, there was just one big room.











I'm just leaving, I've got to go.
Let's see you tomorrow, darling.


- Yes, darling?










He's a bad boy. We're just having fun.























In this little hole, careful.

























You know, Tieber, tomorrow I'm gonna see the big bulls.









You know, with the little crannies that turn around, like this.








































You're cute.







































That's where I come when I want to forget I'm a bad boy.





























I'm an old maid, and worse still, I'm dealing with a smuggler.













What would you say, my dear Melanie... if I'd put down my drawer?



My little actress.













































There's something I need to tell you right now.



I need to tell you something about gold.

But it's important.






















- I have bad news for you.








Wow, this is a situation, my little bird.


































- What do they want?


















Do you understand, my little blonde fool?




















I'm a very expensive girl.









































"The horses ready?"


























As long as it's okay.


















































I'm so glad you didn't want to let me go.





















Get in first, pull me up.






















- Come on, you big boy!







































Well, then we'll raise our little garden.
















Ready?















































I'm telling you again that it's not the first time I've been attacked.


































































Too bad.






























Tomorrow, leaving here with a little suitcase in his hand.

And you were always old!






Who's ready to travel.









: Secretary, young, single, ready for travel.






































The little bits of the white plumber didn't have to do with it either.







































The ad said, "ready to travel."
















Morel, my attorney, the last canal, but I don't care if he has an honest face.

















Paul-Louis will take care of you, my dears, these few days.



Very nice.

Goodbye, my dears.






My last fight suddenly seemed very far away...

And now, I'm sitting in a beaver next to this old oak, which neither the wind nor the storm could have scared or disturbed.
An old stump who wanted to be called a godfather.







I don't think we need to go there, except in the most extreme case.











Very bad, Monsieur Fershaw, very bad.




















They're all like that when you have to return the money you've given them, it breaks my heart.


































And that little girl who was looking at Didonna Fershaw and me, she probably didn't even know she lived in the room where Frank Sinatra was born.






































A French paratrooper needs at least three.

I had to get a rematch.


I see you have your little secrets!
Small?
Big ones!












We'll stop at the first motel.












































Fershaw decided to settle in near New Orleans.

Dear Morel...
















Because I need you, I need to write some letters.
























I'm the one who actually ran the company in recent months.



















And yet he does not tolerate new faces.









































My dear Morel, it is time to fight.




















That night, I decided to go to New Orleans to see the city, to watch a tram called "Want."



























Last stop.
But it's not the worst thing that could have happened to me.






































Actually, it doesn't matter what I said back then.
What I didn't say then is important.







You wanted to know if you could become an important person, an influential person.


Anyway, I was really happy when you came back.

Because I'm an old man who has his own habits that I find difficult to give up.



In our relationship, our fights, there's something like the relationship of two old lovers who no longer love each other.


























And those two lovely slaves at your house in Paris?












Under these conditions, I'm ready to stay.





That you're like a baby.















And you, old fool, you still think you're Caesar?
I think I need a doctor!








































- In Angien, in the new gaming hall.
































You need to see.
Everything needs to be tried in life.

We have to go.

















All you have to do is heat up the soup.























I don't need a lazy man in the house.



























You have to bet a lot to win a lot.






















- Don't.












She got her first warning last week.



























13, black, odd and bigger.





























13, black, odd and bigger.




















- I should've kept going.




Less than an hour, I won my salary in six months.



































It's expensive to travel.















- It's okay.



I need something else.





500,000 in less than an hour.



















The big white building on the right.







I need a map.















12, red, even and bigger.



9, red, odd and bigger.
13, black, odd and bigger.








3, red, odd and bigger.














17, black, odd and bigger.























I had the last badge, and you told me to bet on three.
































I couldn't get to Marcel with my last badge!












What if you had lost the last badge?



















































































I need the money.






















































- I need badges.


3, red, odd and bigger.
































































9, red, odd and bigger.








































You're so cute!


You don't have to wake people up.































I need some ice.






















































But it was expensive to drive. And in time, she gave up.
































You have to live somewhere.















But I was scared at the last minute.































6, black, even and bigger.




















"11", "black", "uneven" and "more".













































6, black, even and bigger.








































You need a tuxedo.





Because I'm happy.















Just what we need.



No, honey... "Lux" with the terrace.



I'm happy!







































One badge makes me happy.









I don't want your pity.










You don't have to get your feelings involved... it's hard enough for me.












You're bringing me luck like a lucky horseshoe.



9, red, odd and bigger.







13, black, odd and bigger.










12, red, odd and bigger.









5, red, odd and bigger.











I should have left.





Nice to meet you.



Nice to meet you!
































One more whiskey, darling!













That guy saw I needed money.

























I'm ready.




I swear it's the last time I play.










10, black, score and more.
























My lucky number.
12, red, even and bigger.





















She was so gross the last time.












You said he was willing to help you... you lied?















Dear Dad, our fight has upset me.









- I'm so happy for you!










I'm sure we could live together and be happy for a while.





And big regrets. But I love you!




I need you!


We'll be happy.






For the last time, please think.


























Let's go... nine, red, odd and bigger.




























That's all that matters.


















You've chosen your first path.































I'm so happy!
Hopder will be more than happy.







It's the first fight I won't get a penny for.


The boss won. Nokdown in the first round.








He lost at least 15 kilos of original weight.





























Beautiful girl.
































You were born under a happy star.




































Things are bad.





























































It was like one big hit.













You need to sleep first.














































































It's a shitty hotel, but the maid is beautiful.













Dear Hopder, life is unpredictable.










Why do you need a free day?










Kraft's new attack!









We're handing over the first round of Kraft Cominek's boxing match.



































You weren't bad, but the last hit wasn't the best.
































































































Honey, you're a little happy!













He needs to get into a crazy house. Please, Hopder.




























Apparently, you know what muscle needs.






































It's especially important to me.








Should I build you a little stadium?





YOU DON'T WANT TO DRINK DOWN.

























But he was spilled by a beautiful girl.











I'm very glad you have such a positive attitude towards sports.







































Are you ready to do this?





















It's gorgeous weather today.





We need miles!












Beautiful women... come on!























I have a new love.
That's why I need more money.














I need the money.



Round one!


Why don't you attack more?






























































Last round!





























- Now I have to sleep.


















































I thought the prisoner would be mine when you no longer needed it.






























It doesn't matter anymore.
The important thing is that after the war, you show up in the ring with a clean conscience.

People are worse.
Much worse.




































But it doesn't matter.


















Last way...



























Madame isn't well? - It's from the salad. - Let me help you.









































































































I can't get you to the sea, but I have a nice boat, I don't need it.






My wife's brother, first.

















Do you need an assistant?
























My first wife died five years ago.












Don't expect to stay here long, we don't need anyone.















I'm going to Paris to get new documents.




I paid 25,000 old ones for it.


But now I have you, and Gérard doesn't need you. - Do you agree to work?



















































With his first wife, I ate a lot of food here.

Daddy, take it. You're not that bad.







She doesn't need anyone, everyone gets in the way. She's gonna make him fire you.




































- I have beautiful booklets. - Does she know?












Glad you're staying.

A man, no matter what, needs a friend.




































- I don't know, it's an old model.































Well, happy.


































- I'm gonna do it, like the first one.





































This car is a holed ship, and the captain is an old fool from Italy!



























































































Look, if you need any help, call me.














- Are you okay? - I'm leaving.

















- Find out what that asshole needs. - Mistress! What do you want?












He's the one who ordered the party, your dear husband.



- As long as my husband's gone, I need him. Well, yeah.



















And I won't let you in. I need you just in case. And I can't leave because of the risk of reporting.










































One bill and a little kiss.








I need a tool, I asked Tom.












- He's an old bastard and a thief.




















What do you want with him?
































There's only an old brother-in-law's passport without a photo.
- You're on a big vacation?
























- Again for the old one?

















- Do you need an employee? - Yes.






By the way, it looks like he's in urgent need of pictures.
















Let's eat and then dance. I'm so glad!

























- What about you when you need a woman?

























I told you, it's the right paperwork.

















































You're an expensive locksmith.








Old model. - And then there's a million, isn't that a lot?



























Darling, darling, I love you!





















He's very bad.

























I can start a new life with them. Goodbye.

























With such a rich husband and such luxurious outfits, you can easily make a lot of new friends.
Look, I really came to Paris from the bottom of America, but that doesn't mean I'm ready to accept all French traditions.
























This is my last chance to see him.




- Yes. - I'm glad for you.





























And you'll get new stamps.





































The gallery paid him 1 million 250,000 new francs. In dollars, it's a quarter of a million.






Last recorded yesterday, Thursday. 5:00 P.M.





Dear Rigina!













































But not too expensive.























I won the last horse at the old man's with only two two.






























Congress thinks that everything a spy needs is...

That he only needs secret codes and cyanide, and then he can get to work.











- Very nice.
















He came too. He's got smaller hair now, but it's him.


And the last one. It's a face that can't be forgotten...














The three of them need them, too... but it's Charles' money, not theirs.

















Those three know as well as I do that you have the money.






I'm afraid you're in very great danger. I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but... remember what happened to your husband.




































Are you ready?



















What do you want?





Don't make any noise, Mrs. Lampert... it's not gonna be much worse.






























If I'd forgotten about it, I'd have left you on the ground floor!
















I need them.














- I wanted to tell you first.
Alan, darling!






























I need this room.



Look at this little man...





























What do you want?



















If you need me, knock on my wall.

Good night.
I'm calm, Mr. Bartholomew.

































I didn't think it was necessary, because Dyle's dead.







































Here's what you have to do. We need to know who that man is, Dyle.










Hello, I'm so glad to see you.

This town is beautiful.



































Now I won't soon get used to your new name.

















It's really beautiful here.


More than you'd give me. Where's the money?



For the last time, Dyle.





























Sit still... you're not so bad.

























There's an old mystery about two Indian tribes.




Did you have to look at his legs?
























































































































































































It would be great if we could do that, too!


It was right here in his movie "American in Paris", such a beautiful dance.






















What do you want?

































































What do I have to do to convince you?



















Well... in the face of intense competition, there's not much choice left for a man without a profession. So I started looking for people who have more money than they need... so much that they don't account for them.























I'm ready to eat a horse. I think that's what you ordered.






That a pretty girl, but a desperate girl is worth a quarter of a million dollars to me?





It's beautiful.




























Is that a new American fashion?











Good night.









I know who has the money... and I need my share.



































I'm sure you don't need them!
We do.


























It's a notebook! Point one, right?




Yes. There was something about... Charles' last meeting.

















































Where's the stamp envelope? I need him!






Do you need an envelope?

















Where is he? What's wrong with you, darling?









































And the last one?














































You're a murderer! I need those stamps!

- Busy. - I need it now!






































And he knows it well! Mrs. Lampert, all he needs is money.







































This one's ready, take care of the other one.

Sorry, I thought you were the killer. Who would have thought he was even more a liar than you?




















































































We need to heat up the milk.




















I'll speak as I see fit... because you're younger than me.











Beautiful manners!


Come on, you're always the last!























Don't, Dad.












We need a shorter working day, or else...


















Dinner's ready for room three!














Why do you need him?














Always a pleasure, Mr. Engineer.




























It's important to turn off the oven when it's ringing.

















I have to go to the bathroom.
Yeah, I'm ready!





































- We weren't ready.







































This class should be the center of our minds, the new... fresh force that... will set the flames on fire, and we...






































































You've managed to make the most important part of it:




You don't have to stop work for an hour, but a day for a week.


























I'm saying this because you have to be prepared for resistance.


























































- Your little bag was open.









































If Negrus goes to work tomorrow, everyone's gonna go after him, and I'm gonna go first.


















































I'm ready to work.













































































You don't know what's worse in Piedmont... after you Sicilians got here?
My dad says that in Sicily... it's getting worse because you're piemonters.



Anything new from my dad?




















































This strike is a great shame.










He's too old, and I'll say more, a little crazy.





















We have to think at the end we're gonna say:






- Beautiful.














First, 13 hours of work and 1 hour for lunch.




















For the last time, I'm telling you!






Who needs me can find me at Corsini Cafe... in Portici Stoso.






Women first.





Who's first?












You're a beautiful Cesarina.










Work, even hard work, can bring great satisfaction.












We don't need a handout.






Specialists ready to work... in worse conditions.

I'm willing to forget all this... but you have to give me an answer tomorrow, otherwise...

If I call the Saluzzo workers... they'll run to catch the first train.

















































































Now, if we're from Arsenal, we need to be careful.

Maybe we should have...


































To be happy?






















To win at first call?





It's important to resist.



























You've arranged a new gathering.















































































































































































They're in bad shape.
Beautiful boys.



Chawoor, 4st floor.



































- Could've been worse.



































Good night.
Good night.

Good night.











Yeah, fine, but if my friends hear about it?








I'm here because I need some money for my wife.














You don't have to.










But now it's in our hands to take the first step.











I was the first to go on strike... and I was the first to suggest we go back.













He needs you... urgently.
























It's an important decision. I demand a vote count.

















































This is an important moment.























































































































Everything was fine. I'm happy.






It was so good to see you.



































Dorothy's not the woman you want.


And you're gonna need a woman who's gonna keep an eye on you.













































I need you.





- Does it matter?


I know, Alain, I'm leaving you with your worst enemy.


















As a professor from a small town that opposes the world of Racine to the world of Proust, Cocto, Wife.



"I believe to understand," my dear.




Some beautiful woman must have been happy to see you.
Pretty women don't need it.





Our young man looks pale after a little fun.
- He's prettier than he used to be.













Aren't we happy anymore?






They're very old.

























I hope you didn't do anything stupid when you first entered town.








We're glad you're here.






































































Life is beautiful.















I have to clear the check, see old friends... and come back early in the morning.






















Be happy."


Be happy."















A pack of Beautiful Eftons, please.








Very bad.




















































But it's awful good to see you.














We remember the good old days.
"Brilliant Alain," he says.


Married, two cute girls.
































































Do you need him now?
























It's all set.






He said he needed complete isolation.







































I've been keeping a diary lately.









































You're too aggressive for a happy man.

It doesn't matter.














You have to wish.


You've been living in an undetectable state for the last 10 years.









When I was 20, I had a beautiful face.










One day I realized that I'd spent my whole life waiting.








You don't have to sleep with her to prove it.











































































We're in a disaster, darling!






To make a couple of friends worried about you happy.




Poets don't need drugs to reach the line between life and death.









But he needs to finish his job.
Please, darling.

















It's good to see you.


He thinks we need mountain air.













Alain Le Roy... he's an old friend in Algeria.

- In due course, a fine officer.






- Very bad.





When this is over, we're gonna get drunk like the good old days.
















He was beautiful.



















He's become a big man.





Call me if you need anything.


After the detox, the first drink just kills.















He's an old friend of Cyril's and my old boyfriend.













They say she's happy.








One day, at 7 a.m., a policeman discovers a deep-seated dead body of a drunken young man lying on the grave of an unknown soldier.

















Then it's all over again.

































































































You're a beautiful woman.












They're not so beautiful and kind, they're all gone.













- You need money?









When I was 18, and I was pretty attractive, my first mistress lied to me.


They're always nice, but they left or let me go.







You have to impress people that you need them and that you have power over them.







So that everything around me would be okay.









Dear Alain, I'm calling to remind you of lunch.








That's so sweet of you.




















In the city, like everywhere, there's a big mess.

Dear Fabrizio, this paper will give you terrible news.

















































If only there were fewer Jesuits here.
















Old depraved men!









For a big duel, a duel with the king, with Francis.

Big things are getting ready, and I can't stay home.










If we want things to stay the way they are, we need things to change.
















Concetta, no need. I'll be right back.






















I've made important political discoveries.






























First platoon, go, march!




Will the roads be better with the arrival of new times?


















But it's very important to them. I'm not saying that gentlemen are evil, quite the opposite.

They don't care what's important to us.










Let's hope for the best. It's so good to see you, Your Grace.





- It's a lot hotter, darling. Terrible!











My family and I are happy to welcome you home, General. Thank you, Your Grace.
The General called you Your Grace, this is the first violation of Garibaldi's orders.

With great pleasure, Your Grace.










I'm happy to welcome Your Grace!






Dear Terezina! It's so good to see you.








































Then all of a sudden you're getting old.

















But Tancredi has a big future ahead of him. Sure.
And how can a shy, confined girl like Concetta become an assistant to an ambitious husband in his future career? And Tancredi needs money.

But Salina's condition will have to be divided into seven parts. Tancredi needs a lot more!






















I remember her pretty girl well. We'll be glad to see her.
My daughter will be here in a minute. She wasn't quite ready.




Very nice.

I haven't seen you in years. You've changed a lot and not to the worst.
It is a great pleasure for us, Signorina Angelica, to receive such a beautiful flower in our house.


I see you will be as kind to me as you have always been to my dear father.







You have a beautiful daughter. Yes, Concetta, yes.
















We needed a lookout at Orillon Monastery.












That was ridiculous! Old and ugly in black pussy, with their eyes sprained, ready to accept the torment.











Oh, lovely Gigojin.






Keep your order, gentlemen. Whoever comes first votes first.


Your Grace, this is a great honor for me because




Last toast to bourbon.
























Need, unity, new opportunities.















We need to change something so that everything stays the way it is. The revolution is over.
Let's hope the new Italy lives and prospers.











And everywhere he was creating secret societies, preparing for the coming of a new power. He is the punishment of God, Your Grace.









For the first Mass at 5:00 a.m. when everyone's asleep.























But now she's just a normal girl, a beautiful girl, and she wants to get married well. She must be in love with Tancredi like everyone else.

For the most part, our money, which Don Calogero handled well.
That's what Tancredi needs.




And he's the sweetest young man I know, and you know it.


I'll get up early. Good night.










You're the first to hear the news, and you're gonna pay for it.








Don't rearrange the cards, Don Calogero. You can't make a big scandal out of an innocent kiss.
















However, you should remember that only wasteful fathers have such sophisticated, beautiful, charming sons as Tankerdi.




Beautiful fields.
The best on our island. There's a beautiful climate and over 2,000 acres of vineyards and olive plantations in Chippidoge.




For the first Mass at 5:00 a.m. when everyone's asleep. One time I went up so early to look at her.














"Fuck you, old man, damn you!" - yelling at the pitcher who used to talk to her."


My boy, it's so good to see you!




Sweet Tancredi.


































What's that? A little present for Signorina Concetta.



































I need to find a rabbit, I need to be fit.








Cavriaga's a handsome guy, he's got a good name, he's rich.










I'm very happy.



















Don't you feel well here?

Dear Chevalier, you are in my house, and you will remain in my captivity as long as I want to.







Since ten years ago, the Baron's son has been kidnapped by bandits. What a mess. They must have had to pay a big ransom.






And finally, in a big basket under the layer of dates, head.

I was a little kid, and my dad told me everything.













You need to write novels.



Sicily is a beautiful country.
After happy accession,
I mean, after Sicily's merger with the kingdom of Sardinia, the government in Turin wants to give some prominent Sicilians the position of Senator of the kingdom. Of course, your name was among the first.

Thanks to great scientific merit, generosity and freedom. I have been instructed to inform you of this proposal in advance and to seek your consent.


It's an honor to see you, your family, and this beautiful palace. Explain to me, Chevalier.




By becoming a senator, you will become the voice of your beautiful land. The Earth that turned its face to the modern world. Where there are so many wounds to heal, so many problems to solve, to give people hope!




I'm a member of the old class, hopelessly spoiled by the past regime, and related to it, if not to love, by origin. My generation is stuck between two worlds, and it feels alien in both.













And they'll hate anyone who wants to wake them up. Even to bring them the most wonderful gifts. And I doubt the new kingdom has prepared many gifts for us.








But the climate can be overcome, the landscape can be changed, the bad governments can be forgotten. I'm sure the Sicilians will want to be better.

You need someone who can combine specific personal interests with vague social ideals.






He's not a scientist, but he's a great practice.




People like Cedara and everything will be the same as they were for centuries. Listen to your conscience, Prince, the pride of a bad counselor.

You're a noble man, Chevalier, I was very pleased to meet you.





Several officers from English ships have requested permission to climb the terrace of my house, from where the mountains surrounding the city can be seen. They were thrilled with the beautiful view, but they were surprised at the poverty and the piety of the streets around us.









Then maybe things will change, but for the worst.






Stella, darling! Your daughters have become so beautiful!


But they should have been invited.
It's gonna be Angelica's first day out.










It is a great honour for me to host the battle triumphant at Aspromont.
You're very kind, Princess. I'm very happy to be your guest.




It's a pleasure to meet you, Princess.

What was he like? He was as handsome as an angel.

Amazing man, isn't he, darling?





In fact, you're even prettier than they say you are. Thank you.


You don't need him here.













Dear Fabrizio! You look beautiful.
Good to see you.














There are so many beautiful ladies around. - You're one of them. - At my age!

You don't have a lot of balls like that. It's too expensive now.
Yes. You're right. Beautiful ball.
But the most beautiful of all are our lovers.



















Let it be the first waltz.















What a beautiful girl dancing with your father!

I remember being young, and I know how boring it is to have dinner with two people in love with an old uncle.





There's too much choice. Don Margarita's a great cook.








However, I must confess, when I saw a hundred naked fanatics in Ostrmont, with angry faces, calling rebels, I was happy,



They sincerely sought to create a new Italy through a revolution.


Thank you, darling.


Excuse me, Colonel. Don't you think you're a little attracted to compliments and bows in his honor?





What's wrong with that?










I'm so happy...
Tancredi is so cute.

















The new Government demands legitimacy and order.










































With that dead man, I'm ready to believe that he is, too...
























I know, gentlemen, you're sorry, but I need to see the editor right away.




































The head of such an important newspaper should have checked the headlines before sending the number to the press.

Morten and Robbins' deaths are very sad, but this Welby stunt could get us into a lot of trouble.








I don't care, my life is worth more.

















Dear friends, I leave this kind invitation to remind you of me.







I remember articles published in all English newspapers in the last 30 years!













Anyway, for 15 pounds, I'm gonna tell you about the notes in the worst yellow press.





























You don't have a smaller one?



Excuse me. Actually, I'm happy about that.



But they're needed, they're important, aren't they? For what?



Beautiful!

St. Antony, he's beautiful, too.





Do you need St. Antony now?
Well, no one's gonna need a little saint these days while the Black Widow walks around London.








































One who doesn't appreciate the old one isn't worthy of a new one.











I just wanted to tell you that you're beautiful.












































































Okay. Thank you very much.













Yeah, every house needs a character.
So, what important news did you bring?


It's not that nice, though, is it?







All my ancestors were beautiful seamen, and I... can I have another?

























I'll remember that little detail.









May God keep the queen and you. Good night, Mr. Welby.
Good night, Mr. Fish.













I also doubt it's a little girl.








We need to find out where Avery's daughter lives and invite her over.



It's the last minute of extra time.




















Mr. Welby, we don't need...

...we don't need your help in Scotland Yard!
























































































By the way, I'm glad you're more interested in young girls now than black widows.















You lose everything until the last shilling...
























Worst case scenario, we're gonna lose some money. And you...













































And I took my new suits to the tailor.
They're not quite new, but still.















Even if you think I'm just an old drunk...
But don't forget that old drunks have the best intentions...






Wait a second, it's okay and it's okay.
I mean, I don't think it's perfect.



You're a cute little fool, every one of those dead men blames you.






















She's a woman, which is worse.











A very nice man, but I don't want to meet him again.









Oh, what a big girl.





My dear Mr. Welby, your ambitions are gradually becoming a threat to your life.
I'm always glad to see you, but today... it's too raw... I've got urgent daddy business... goodbye, sir.



The killer needs money.












































But I didn't do anything wrong.
"Bad"...


Mr. Broomfield also bequeathed that... if he was the last survivor, you would be his only heir.


Who's gonna believe you... under the false name that almost made Mr. Broomfield look bigger than his secretary?









































Well, is it even worse that you just stood by and didn't act when I was shot? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,


















What do you want?











What do you want?
What do I want?






























It's nice of you to care, thank you very much.



























I'm a worse lady than Mr. Welby.







































































































































































































































































































































No, there's something about kids. You know what the most beautiful thing in the world is? A man comes home and his wife says, "We're having a baby."


































Thank you very much, Mother.







Better, worse! Come on!






























In April or May, when the first cherries appear.


Carmine, we're gonna need help, don't forget about me!
Pasquale, if you want a son, I'll serve you fast!

























- You'll see, it'll be beautiful.





That's how beautiful you are!












- Who did I tell? I'm gonna kill you! - We need good treatment here.



- Go to Uncle Pasquale, my dear.





Well, you little ogre!






Do I have to throw it out the window because some little bastard doesn't want to drink it?













































A man needs sleep.


- It's worse than I thought.









But the worst part is, the worse I get, the stronger she gets!
She's getting even prettier.








































Seven kids one after the other, I'm still feeding the last one.






































No, bad, he's very exhausted.



























Honey! - Yes. But where's Carmine?



- Oh, honey!






You started it, so now we're done!















First.
















































































I have applied for a pardon to the President of the Republic. - But it takes time for things like that.






































- Are you happy to be back with the kids?











It's 12? Do you think your wife will be released with the first group? - Ouch!
























Car's ready!








Fortuneta, this is my first night out in a long time. I want to rest.





















Oh, yes, Father Astophi's little orphans.









Honey! He's got a nice and serious face.


My darling! He's got such short socks!









































But it's not what you think, it's even worse.



































































- Is she beautiful?



I need a little quiet and quiet.



It's gonna be over soon, and it's gonna be a beautiful October.














The sea will be calm and gentle.







































- Yeah, the last model.














































My dear girl, my eternal love, the goddess of eternal youth!



















Dress like a little girl.




I just need a little care, Mara.













No, Dad, permission's not ready.








































I'm glad no one knows him, he's just my saint.























- I've got a normal, really old one.





Come here, darling, come here!








He came from Bologna on an important case.












- Good night, Signorina.
















And tomorrow, I'll get the tenants to file a complaint against you, and they'll be happy to sign.







- Grandma, you old grumpy!

- Damn old witch!













Is that a new one?
I'm gonna put this old karga back in place!

- What old hag?








































What a beautiful intimate light!



We need music.







The adorable foot of a beautiful woman enters the ray of light.


I'm ready to faint as I'm touched!












"Dear Signora."
What a darling!
Why is it expensive?



















Why don't you have a rug in front of the door, a little rug like that?


























The old witch will get away with it!








































- Nice to meet you.


















- Nice to meet you.





Umberto's parents have such high hopes for him.

















































Please give me six beautiful candles.










































































- Nice to meet you.

























I'm so glad!

I'm glad, I feel my conscience is clear!

















But, darling, the holy vow is a holy vow.








































What's new from yesterday?


































A large empty house by the edge of the water, with trees around it.









I need a car.





















Istanbul is actually very small.




Do you have to take the chairs out?


I need a chair to sit down.
























































That's a pretty name for you, too.

















Very beautiful...
A very beautiful mosque...

It's beautiful.









A very beautiful mosque...










































It doesn't matter.

















Yeah... honey...













But when I need her, I never know where to find her.
























So what does it matter?





























































































































































You seem like a nice guy...



Well... it doesn't matter...









You're such a nice young man...




As for the big car, no, I don't think so...













No, it's small.
You're wasting your time, my dear friend.












































East jewelry... very beautiful.








































































































































Or as if I attached great importance to absurd details...

































A very beautiful mosque...


Very beautiful... very old...


















If you're interested in this beautiful car, I'll give it to you even cheaper as a friend.






















No, Monsieur... new...
A brand-new...


























You think it's very old because the stones have leaned in different directions...






















Tell me, why is a nice girl like you doing this kind of craft?



But on the day of my first concert, the piano lid fell on my hand.

After that, I didn't care what to do to feed myself and my little dog.










































So, if you need some action, forget about fancy neighborhoods.


















In the police file, he's listed as a Romanian stealing chicken by the name of Constantinescu, but when he bought this place, it was called Usach's and it was cheaper to grow a mustache than to buy a new sign.







- Not bad.

There were a few very nice doves today.





The last one had no money, and he paid with a check.





















So this is one big happy family...


































- It's day one.






So I've been told that I'm ready for more important tasks.











- I don't need artichokes.































But if you need a little heat, a shoulder you can cry on, you have to hide in dark shacks like a criminal. Nonsense!










He needs some fun tonight, some friendship.























































You need to take the dog away, you're a bad mother.





































- It's that new cop.






The last time we were arrested, we were taken straight to Doi.













- And don't play doctor. # Bird, bird, little bird



- ♪ In my lovely nest ♪ - (all) ♪ In my lovely nest ♪










16? Yeah, it was bad Monday, but next time, there's gonna be more.












I don't think so, not on the first day.





















Hey, honey, you need to take off all those wet clothes.


♪ Bird, bird, little bird ♪



♪ Bird, bird, little bird ♪






















































- Why? - I need a room.














Look, mister, there's too much competition in my profession.



You need to drop this case.






















It's a brand-new hat.





































It's beautiful.





















You know, to some extent, I'm happy for that girl from Dijon who coughed.



























- We need to talk!










You little... you're lucky I'm not taking your golden tooth!












Why do you even need someone?
Everyone needs someone.
For example, Coquette needs me.










My mother had to come back late.























- Yeah, old uniform and toiletries.












I bet no one's ever looked at you like that.


The first time I met you, I thought you were cute.
How wrong I was. You're beautiful.































































I have a little gift for you.


- I don't need her.
- No, I do.

















It's a big waste.










You're so cute. Kiss me.


I promise you, this is the last pack I'm gonna smoke.







- Would that make you happy? - Nope.























































I was last evacuated from there.































No, no, no, honey, it's not necessary.

All I need is a little friendly conversation, a shoulder to cry on, a happy smile.

Let me be curious, darling. Do you think I'm disgusting?











But at first it was such a happy marriage, we sat by the fireplace and played double solitaire, and... and played Chinese chess.














- Your Lady X, is she beautiful? - Very, very passionate.

























Old bastard with a beard.





Here you go, my dear.



















Oh, I'm sorry, but I really have to catch the plane, or Lady X and this pathetic gardener will be pissed off.





It somehow got into my pocket. Old bastard.
























- He taught me a new game.
























I'm so happy. Now it's only gonna be three of us, you, me and Lord.

































Good morning, darling. - Good morning.




You know, I don't have to do anything until Thursday. - What Thursday?






We don't have to do anything.






You know how I like green. So I tried it on. That's what I need.










- My darling!




- What is it, my dear?








Old bastard.















It must be a beautiful place for Coquette.

































You make me the happiest person.









I thought maybe you'd be interested in something new, unusual...



























He's got a big estate.











































































Go outside and ask the first person you meet.













- There's something we need to discuss. - I'd love to.




What, darling, so important do you want to tell me?





I'm ready.








Not at all, darling.

It's just... I'm having a big problem with the servants in the castle right now.













- All they had to do was push them. - Want me to push you?
























- They're beautiful, aren't they?

















Big, black, almond eyes.
























That's very kind of you to say.






Yes, but... I wanted to say that.....I wouldn't be completely honest with you, dear Irma, if...







I'll be ready in 20 minutes.








































- The world is too small for both of us.





Someone's got to warn him so he can wiggle less money around here.













































































- Old, familiar case.






































Yes, Inspector, it's an old, familiar case-- a crime of passion.















































Listen, Usach, I need to get out of here.
I want to be with her, she needs me.







If you don't need them, throw them out the window, but before you do, tie them together.














- That's what I was afraid of, too big.










- Yes, darling.

































































I bet you put him on a ship to South America.



















We've been searching the river for the last nine months.






































She's beautiful.
































































Come with us, my dear Cocanten, with a sip of fresh spring air.


















My dear Jacqueline, may I introduce you to Monsieur Cocanten, our guest tomorrow.


It is a great honour to congratulate you one of the first.


- Say hello to monsieur, darling. - Hello, monsieur.




















































Dear friends, I want to tell you the news, the big news and the happy news.


























Thanks to these papers, he easily received funding for his first major project.




Jacqueline, darling, Monsieur is right.











Sir, the luggage is loaded, the crew is ready.






In case of anything, I'm always willing to help.














I'll send you my new address.






















































































Make sure that Marie-Jeanne Bonthamp, who's looking after little Alice, is okay...









She seems to be sick.























- That old wheelbarrow!






















- I'm so glad you're here.


















Your daughter is safer in Luasi. There she is under the protection of my men.
























I need Detective Cocanten.

































Go to your dear daddy because he means so much to you.














































No, my dear Marie, that's impossible.























He'll leave me at the earliest opportunity.

I need a man like you.












- It's so good to see you again.





















Favro, for the last time, give up.


















It's not what you have to do!



































That's what we need!




Is she a great model?





We need more time to find this woman.






So now I'm a stalker? We need to find this number right away.





























Just one little secret.




It was destroyed by the ashes of war. It was the largest in the world.






























































































































































As you command, we see the ship. A new nuclear submarine, Red Satan.

There's no more of the world's biggest submarine, and there's nothing we can do about it.



































Yeah, big number.
































































































Maybe it's his old patriotism.




















Everybody ready? Push it!















Amano, look what they need. Yes, sir.







Captain's ready to meet.







Isn't your daughter beautiful?
















Jinguchi, there's a threat to the world. We need your underwater fortress.
































Section 10 is ready!
Section 8 is ready!
Section 5 is ready!







Open the first gate.
Open the first gate!
Open the first gate!



































We have to stop them. You can't let your old wounds get in your way.
Old wounds...?







Then why do you call using Atragon a bad idea?
Who says it's a bad idea?

Atargon's not a bad idea. The world needs Atragon!





































If you're such a patriot, you don't have to cover up for your old service.















There's a big explosion coming!




























- We need to get rid of them quickly!


















If I remember correctly, it cleared the area of a lot of rocks.




These guys are making a big storm!












































































































The team is ready to go.

























They're big, yeah.















- I had to stitch a hole in one.



May 1st, you look like smart people, and the next day, everything's still...







"Where were you in 1909, during the big riots?"













Remember how good she was to you when you were little.















































But if you call it French pork chops, like in expensive restaurants, it tastes so much better.






I imagined something more solemn on May 1st.









We need to dig this up.


Then it's definitely gonna be the most beautiful liquor.


It's May 1st.









Too bad I can't go, I have to stay home and pee...

Are you really going to write on May 1st?
That May 1st, that Christmas.

Your father wouldn't like what I compared May 1st to Christmas.


















It needs to be published first.

I shouldn't have bothered you.












We need to rest this afternoon.

































Now you see why I had to go to the game and fill my shame with something?







































It's called 'cause it's a very old brand.






The last time I went in there, someone threw up my shoes.



I can't put up with bad service and second-rate products.








That's the first number again.





















































- But, you know, you have to be careful.
We need to check the cards.








I see you have to be a professor in Paris for fucking.





Oh, my dear!

Oh, old tree!
You're big and powerful!







































When the first contract is offered, you'd better say no.






The son receives the Nobel Prize and the father's last cigar is broken.






In the business world, time is of great value.




















Mom, I need to iron my pants!

We need to wear a Sunday suit in Stockholm.











Is their appendix worth more than ours?











































I'm sad because... I didn't care enough about you when you were little.















































































- The most expensive cognac of my life...





You know how it is when the goods end up in the right place at the right time.


When they open the door, the order form should be ready by now.
The right speech, the right words.







I'm talking about the Goods, with the letter T.




















To see, you need sunshine.























































My mom didn't play Mozart's piano when I was a kid.





Tickets are so expensive, you don't even have to climb.
Big clubs go there, of course.

- So you're not a Czech language, but you're gonna join a big club.




















































I don't have to buy expensive food.






































When I started, you were still a kid.
























































It was very expensive.














































So it was up to you to decide.


This is an important election.
These are especially important!

















































































































































































































I was with him the first time.




















Anyway, it's not that bad.






































If the ship shows up, he's gonna need a sign.
We need smoke on the mountain.
















We're gonna blow up a big flame and keep it up all night.





































































You should have come with us, Ralph.









We need meat.

















Is the leg ready yet?


































Let's discuss who's responsible for what. And then we try to start over. And let's not forget important things like a fire.




































































































































Now Kemberley is an old place, and it hasn't worn that name all the time.




































































































































































































































































Without my glasses, I can't see at all, and I need to get them back.











What do you want?






















































































































































































































































Every year, we in Nefera must hand over to King Kafaos... 24 girls chosen from among the most beautiful.


















- It could happen one day, everything will change.













- I was chosen the most beautiful of Nefer's girls.
































- What's so important about this race?
- The place is important.




- You're a lucky man.
- How beautiful you are, Chelima!












- You forgot I'm Resia's first maid.
















- I think one day Rezia will interfere with the relationship between us...



- You don't have to look for me anymore.






















































































- My dear friend, I can swim with them.





















- It's all ready for battle!
- It's all ready for battle!






















- My beautiful ship!















- I didn't do anything wrong.


























- Resia is very beautiful... and can make you happy, even more than I am.






















- We don't need to worry about Xandros.








- Let's get him out of the paws of this old harpy.



















































- Pergaso, I need to talk to you.
























- Races, it's not that important. - I'm worried about something else.




- He's not willing to risk his life?








- Do we have to wait for someone else?




















- I've suffered the worst punishment for my pride.
















- That they won't send girls to Cafaos anymore... but then he can start a new war.

- Pergaso, if the people are prepared to face such consequences, it is their will...








- This man is a rebel, and I'm happy to prove it.





























- Your victory can drag us into the worst crisis possible.














- I need him alive!










If we let him live, we'll see a lot of bloodshed!




- Moraqueb will execute the girls first.
- So our first challenge is to save them!

- It's all set.



























I wanted to make sure that in order to save my country... you were willing to sacrifice your love... and that my people would have a king who would help him.






- This is the last time, I swear.






























































Nefer's new army is ready for anything.


















- It's the first... - But it's the path to a certain death.














- But you won't get what we're willing to give you for the mercy of our lives.
- We'll send you slaves and build a new sacred triram.















- Being waiting for death is worse than physical pain.








- Maybe your life hangs on the last rope.



































- Stay calm, we'll set you free.






- There's nothing worse than Kovna or Evandra or our army.







- We'll act at the right time, as planned.











- She's alive and beautiful, more than ever.


















































































































- Come out my dear.


- Very nice.




































































You need to improve your health, Baba.





































You still have to pay for Bani's school in two months.



























Tell me, why do you need them at this age?









And despite that, all you need is money, money and money!














This is the last time I give you money. I won't.




































































































Listen, how do you write Masumdar with the letter "j" or "z"?
"Z." The first letter in the word "the zoo"










It's gonna make a bad impression.

Why? Red is bad?



















All you have to do is frame the right English word.



The less you make mistakes, the more you win. And if you make more mistakes, you get a smaller share.







Yeah, but it wasn't that big back then.





























































And we need to change. We're gonna have to accept this change.













Until the day you get your first benefit... and buy a couple of points for Baba.


















Pint, darling.












I'll buy you some nice toys.
































































































- Not far, near Calighat. Gang is next to Ghat. So I'm ready to call God.

















'Cause you're gonna need a couple of points.



You've been teaching me my first class, haven't you?


























I have little kids in the house.



Sit here for a while, darling.
























- Is he handsome?









It was a very beautiful house!














































































Are you happy now?




































But you don't have to buy me anything.


Your father-in-law is old.






If he's happy, so am I.




If you accept them, I'll be happy.

I'm too old to change my mind.
You'll be happy doing whatever you want.





Grandpa doesn't want to watch my new toys.


Look... how did Baba get her new glasses?





























To do that, he needs to find faults in my work.





















No, I didn't. That's why I call you when I need you.
What do you need?
I need your favor. If you can help as a friend.


I need a job.




- I do, but I'm gonna need more.








































Mom's bad.















Get me something very beautiful.












Family peace is more important than money.



































All you have to do is file a statement.





























You accept new girls for sales. They'll be in your command for training and practice.


That's a bad word.






They're gonna walk. All you have to do is coordinate. You have to check what everyone does.


























Bank." New Bharat.


- You need to raise my salary.






It takes two or three months.

- And since you've been working for two months...



























We need to be careful. You have to be smarter.

































You're still a little kid.


Go to the kitchen. Potato, eggplant, pumpkin - all cut and ready.









He says you have to wait at least a month.










Show at 10:30. - I'm totally ready.

















If he's good, you're good too, aren't you?


When I see your achievements, the heart under this old bag of bones...













Do you need financial help?











I don't need a fish, Mom.

It's almost ready, child.











First category.















- Mom has a bad office.
- Bad office?









Mom, Baba said your office was bad.



























What about the sales report? Don't you have to turn him in?

I need to.



Oh, Arati, thank you very much. - Take it and sign it.









That was my first thought.












































































But you don't have to worry.
I gave him one prescription, and he also needs to be completely alone. Full peace.




Don't act like a little kid, okay?





I have to go.

Listen. I'm not asking for payment, but there's something I need to tell you.


I know it's none of my business, but I had to say it.































You're gonna have to take your medicine for me, no poaching.


I've only been late for the last few days.













I have to go... I recognize you.































I don't need to say this, but our last power created a clan.







If someone works for their conscience, they have to meet their demands.









- That's very nice of you.








In the meantime, I need to make some calls.









































Are you ready to do this?
Are you ready to do this?





I'll be happy.





















Look, I'm not mad, but I can't be happy about the news.

I made a big mistake. Nope.


You've answered the injustice. There's nothing wrong with that.











We need to be strong right now.


It's such a big city.





I feel happy.

















We're ready to share the water.








You're happy here.







Do you really need all these birds?



























































We're gonna leave after the first rain.
After the first rain, our men will return.





Do you have a peaceful life here?

































You shouldn't have come here.
















After the first rain, we'll leave!

















For the last time, I'm telling you.

















































































Every night she walks the most expensive jungle in the world.








Sam, I need to tell you something.








They're calling, put it inside, honey.









That's the last word in the competition.






















Ready to get dressed?















































Now you have to do it through the courts.
I wasn't the first to run my column, I wasn't the last one.



















As Robert Herrick said, it's not a bad poet.



























- Beautiful France.

























With this goose, they're ready to feed you 12 times a day, just give me the will.










He's not drunk, he's pretty cute.
He's not cute, he's drunk.




- Honey.


















You must raise a glass of champagne for your first visit to France.

Oh, honey, in France, we only use orange juice if it's a duck.







Isn't that beautiful?







Maybe I should have walked into his office years ago and said, "Mr. Bergner, we have to have breakfast together.






















You haven't read it lately?

Every week, new, sometimes four sometimes and six.
















And then you'll write about your experience, the first American to climb the guillotine.


























Nice chalatique.















Things from boutiques look as good as expensive originals.

Dear no woman will save money on clothes in Paris.








The last guy to bow to me played King Arthur in fourth grade and I was Guinevere.























Scentimeter, darling.

I think it's a beautiful night.








The most beautiful city in the world.










It's not bad for us to shake up a little and have fun.












- Honey, do you dance a twist?

- Oh, not bad at all, come on.

















- I can be calm for at least three years.






I've got two weeks to show this black streakbracher that he's throwing one of the biggest hopes of American journalism.



















Come on, read it, I need your opinion.

































No, I need to finish the bills.








It's not a city, it's a big, 114-square-mile cocktail.














He quickly convinced me that it was more than just sex.



























I need a cab!

- Oh, I have to go to town.














I have to do something beautiful in my life, but it has to happen before my voice subsides.
It's Saint Catherine's Festival, the patron saint of all single women who work in the shops of a ready-made dress.




Oh, there you are, sweetheart, inviting celebrity champagne for free.

Oh, no, that you're cute, it's a religious holiday.
- You see, darling, all these women are looking for a husband, just like me.





- I'd love to.



For over a thousand years, I was just a kid.













Hey, hey, hey, what if a girl doesn't want a husband at all?





If you remember something beautiful and you're about the same as me as Mimi.
Are you a funny little man like Mimi? Is that really me?







You're so beautiful.



Every little bouton tells me, you know what





































I don't need anything.


I'm willing to bet there's a lot of girls' sex in here.












































"Our President is in vain trying to conduct a new experiment to convince his French colleague that it is impossible to use psychotropic substances in a military complex."
It's very important to us.

































My sweet child.




Samantha, you're a smart girl, but you have too much imagination and too much champagne, you probably should go.











You have to be prepared to change your inner self.



- You want my advice, Samantha?










Samantha came to her first cosmetic salon in her life. Her feelings were like a soldier before the firing squad.




And if they can't, then it's no worse than what she was before, can they find her?
It was a very important decision.








I need to get to football.












Of course the monsieur is a hermit, but look around us we are on the Elysée fields at this time in this place you can see the most beautiful women in the world.

These women are important, cold themselves.





Only the most beautiful of all possible tastes for you.






Like that cute blonde with the innocent eyes sitting there?
- An old friend of mine and the crown of the prince of Denmark.




She's an expensive listener.
One of the most expensive.












Then maybe you'll show some kindness and sympathy to my dear friend, he's also from America.


































- One important man from the government.


We could do a bigger article than I thought.











Honey, if you only speak French, the deal's off.



Yeah, I speak English and not bad.






He was one of the softest guys in the world, only until he got to the ball, and then boom.

















- "This funny little..."

"This funny little man Mimi"



















On her way to the stadium, Mimi told me how she started doing her interesting thing when she was little, she said she'd always dreamed of being the same as mom.


























































Of course, darling, he was just a student back then.









- And it's gonna cost me more or less?




I'm gonna need to see you two hours a day for a few weeks.












































And other things began, old as the world of the game.

























Haven't you noticed how much Samantha's changed lately?


- That's not bad.
And it's gonna lead to something bigger.


It's a perfectly beautiful model.




Oh, no, no, tonight I'm taking you to a beautiful little Tour Dargentt restaurant.





I walked along Camille, five times back and forth, almost cold. I need new material. Why don't you ask Félicien?





'Cause you only need one editor to put the paper on the scapula.




Oh, sure, I'd love to.

Oh, honey, it's Paris and I don't have any friends like that.



















"Honey, the Countess has gone to Biarrica.


Oh, of course not, no, my dear, I said...













This motor you're talking about. He's not gonna fit into model T, too big.

















If I need the Salvation Army, I'll call.








I'm playing with you because I need your stories and that's all I need from you.



I know you're doing this to determine your sick old mother's boarding school.






To the same beautiful old dresses, day after day.




It's so big, it's good enough to be bad-flavored.



- That's so sweet.
Joe, my dear, gave it to me last night. We just ordered onion soup with this thing.



Congratulations, I hope you'll be very happy.


Honey, darling, I hope you don't mind me going to the press to report our engagement.












Oh, darling, it's Paris.






Until they found an even more old and silly hang.

We bought everything we needed.


















Bertram, his first name?





Yeah, she's a very nice girl, hang her picture back.












First grade





Yeah, thank you, boss, and good night.




























I know what you need, nice women's society.







I'm a big dumpster.

- It's a big dump.










Daytime, sweet New York girl, night's fun for customers with other people's hair on their heads.














After all, this is the last time I saw her.








It wasn't bad at all, Harry. It was like I was caught. It could become a habit.

















Oh Lina I love him like the last rag.


You turn to such a beautiful, honest man who understands a man like him.

Oh, for him, I'm willing to change my whole way of life and if he could help you change even a little bit.
I'm willing to give it all away for it.











Come on, be beautiful and think of the good.






















I'm not so old that a nice face doesn't make me feel good.
- Nice face.







One at the old driver's company.
















Maybe the old dog went with the young girl right upstairs?
With a young beautiful girl?

All I can tell you is that I look forward to my own future with great anticipation.












There's only one last hope left for you, you're coming with me.






























I mean, I don't want her to stick around for 15 years and end up with an old hang.











Happy bachelor, in the prime of life, all women are ready to give it up like a meal on a Swedish table.







It must be a new kind of love.

















I wasn't sure I'd find you on your old mess tonight.




















After, after darling, and it's gonna be a lot more expensive.






Run, my little rabbit.








She's almost ready to crack.





















That's even worse!






It's the worst thing in the world.



I'm a grown woman and it's my last night in Paris and damn it, I love you.






I'm even more new to this than you are.

You're the first girl in my life I want to ask to be the mother of my children.






































- Thank you very much.








Have you lost weight lately?























































- A man must be ready to die.











Be ready.













Don't be afraid of anything, darling.





The first time I saw this surgery was when the old professor did it 10 years ago.


- The old man was happy when I asked him.








He was the first to perform this operation in Hungary.






And that's what you asked the old professor to do!









What a great beautiful garden...






Not a little apprentice.






- What's the last price of a car?











You're biased against the old professor.


































The focus of the first tone on the top...























Well, old man, what do you want, it's an old school.
This old school hasn't gotten anyone out of clinical death yet.
The energy and stubbornness of old school... and loneliness...


































For me... I need it, you know.






































































And even though my senses and my mind have found and revealed the reasons for my sadness at that time, I will not be able to ease the burden of those first impressions.






























Come with me, I need to talk to you.




















































































































I know, I only came when I needed something.

















































- Was I beautiful?

















Have you noticed he's been losing weight lately?




I don't see your new farm...

Or the one behind the big tree...
That big tree is a poplar, isn't it?





Is it bad when things are going smoothly?
No, it's not bad...










- I don't need her.



















- For the last time.
And I've also been going to planting for the last year.










I really need you.


























...A loving father could no longer wait for his dear sons, and he caught a cat and went on a journey to search for his nine beloved sons.


And finally reached a beautiful source...






Thank you very much.







What a cute little car.












































I need them right now, Pierre.














He owes me $40,000, nobody's ever lied to Big Joe.
Look, Big Joe, I'm not a bailiff.





















You have to be a round idiot to lose her.

















Hello, darling!


Your last movie is amazing.






























We'll be here for a few days, darling.
This is gonna be a great chance for a great vacation. ( PHONE RINGING)












Oh, I'm sorry, darling.
It's okay, sweetheart. I'm sorry...



I wonder how many women can save on a household to buy a beautiful mink coat like this?


Oh, I'm just in love, darling.
My dear.
- Sorry, my dear. Please, I'm sorry.






- Yes. I'm so sorry, darling.
Honey, there's something I need to discuss with the manager.


Bye, darling.
It's okay, my dear.







Oh, thank you very much, princess.





















It would be a big mistake to underestimate him, believe the Inspector's words.




































I don't often have dinner alone with beautiful princesses.






I think it's so sweet of you to invite me today.


Oh, hey, sweet boy.
Don't even try to play with your muscles, darling.
Isn't he beautiful, Your Highness?


- Honey, can I have a cigarette?
- Yes, of course, my dear.






Thank you very much.




Yes, darling. And lean forward.
Sorry, honey.

Are you okay, my dear?



Yes, darling.



















He can take care of 10 girls at the same time and everyone will feel happy.












Well, it seems to me that every middle-aged bachelor... who resists what family and wife can give and thinks it's necessary to take over most of the hearts... by making one conquest after another... is just trying to prove something that can never be proved.























Honey, can you get me another blanket?
Yes, darling.
There you go, darling.
- Jacques? - Yes, darling?

- What, my dear?
I'm sorry, honey, but it's not helping.












Honey? Honey, I need to talk to you.
Honey, I sent Jacques for milk.

















My darling, my darling.

My dear, your feet are like two pieces of ice.















Yes, darling? I don't know what this is about.





Don't worry, darling.


Of course, darling.



- Yes, darling?



I think we should just have a sleeping pill.
Okay, darling.


You need a break, and you know it.

Here you go, darling.












That's not good.





























At 6:00, I went to my first safari.
The phrases. Hunting wild animals. At 10, I made the first loaf of a murdered tiger.
But I'll never forget my lovely pony.







































































































"Dear Uncle Charles, don't worry about anything.























He's first in class.













Well, I guess you're not alone in this, honey.






















Ma'am, you really need to drink this.






You know, George and I had a great reunion last night... after we took you home.
He's very nice.










I'm hardly as good as your uncle, but I'm happy to share my experience with you.
I'm sure Madame is a wonderful teacher.



























Do you have to leave today? Yes.











- Come on. It's an ugly old trick, and I don't remember anything."












































- George! - It's a lot easier, honey.











- Who? The man who stole your dog is in that little car.


















You have a very beautiful smile.






Didn't you set up the first one?




















































Well, you shouldn't have any trouble finding the right place.


Either you get old or you need glasses, my love.
When I get old, darling, you'll be absorbed in the care of your grandkids.


Jacques would be a great father.






- Good night.



















Sorry, I have to leave you. I need to make a very important call.


Good night.

















Sorry, honey.






Honey.
Honey, don't move.




















And you broke the first commandment... you were attracted to it.



















- Thank you very much.








What if he finds out the prefect didn't actually call him? - You're the most beautiful.



















- "Dear"?






- Yes, darling?


Oh, darling, did you hurt yourself?












- It's okay, honey.





Honey.
Yes, darling.

Honey, maybe I should take a bath.




Do you mind if I take the first bath?


Okay, my dear.
I'll tell you what we're gonna do, like old times.
When you're ready. I'm gonna go in the tub and rub your back.


Hello, darling.
Hi, honey.





No, it's beautiful.

Don't, darling.


Yeah, I know, honey.

Oh, you're so sweet, darling.


Thank you very much.
Honey, did you get rid of those little bubbles?

I said, did you get rid of those little bubbles?








Thank you very much.







- Yes, darling?







Just a minute, darling.

- Honey, listen to me.




If you don't turn around... but, darling.



Yes, dear, but I can't help you. I can't open it.


There's nothing here, darling.











Why aren't you in bed yet, darling?

I mean... I just came from there, darling.










I'm sure not, darling.








Honey, my baby... (LAUGHS)
(GROANING) Honey? What's the matter?






On the street minus ten, darling.

Yes, darling. Yes.



I understand the princess is waiting... for some important guests tomorrow morning.











Oh, I'm sorry, darling, I wanted to surprise you, that's all.

It's probably not the last one.




No, don't, darling.












































I have some important news.













When was the last time you saw Sir Charles Litton?










































Yeah, it's fine, it's fine.







































Look, I need to talk to you.

Honey.

You see, Her Highness and I discussed very important things... and when I saw you behind the library door, I naturally assumed... (LAUGHS)


You know, honey, you've never danced with me before, my angel.
Sorry, honey.




I have to go to Frascati.



Excuse me, dear, but I need to speak to Lord Cravenwood.
It's very important.








Thank you very much, sir. Do you like the party?



































































































Yeah, it's not bad for me, but it's bad for you.






Well, I'm very glad you're in a good mood, and I hope it will last the next 20 years you'll be here.






























Yesterday, the trial was interrupted because the defense asked for time... to examine in detail new important evidence. And there are rumors that today the court... the defense will be presented with a new witness.



Don't worry, darling.















Were you at the very first party when the jewels were stolen?

















































Thank you, darling.









Find out more about the family?

















Part One. Author: Pierre Paolo Pazolini





































This snow is the last year's snow, or a thousand years' snow, or snow is the promise of universal hope.
These are our mothers, our children and grandchildren, our old parents, the same figures.











There's a new problem in the world:














People of color, the new African nation is independent.















































On the streets of Pisa and on the coasts, the symbolic figures of the four republics will pass through the procession :























But... these covers, like mountains of gold, these crowns, like little fossil souls...







A, sweet queen, touching bourgeois wife, even a little shy with her inferiority complex.












It's like a new pre-mortem period. Wars go, armed with silence, where history is gone.

to the religion of bourgeois. Now, bourgeois next to his lumpen brothers, to the coffin of the aristocratic pope, like in a big square.







Like depraved fathers and grandfathers, drunk with fine wines, a man unknown to the Lupmen of the world, but, also, who cultivates the land, a new father, with a lovely and mysterious smile like a turtle, seems to realize that he must be a shepherd of the rejected,







Is that the words of an angel he whispers in the ear to this sweet dad?
The nation begins its history again, first of all, returning it to its people,
















A little pride in the Soviet Union.



And I'm happy to put off my poor working rob in the morning, under the burning sun of my province, my village!



I want to possess something beautiful and noble,



Obedience, because I'm the first educated son in the line of men who had nothing but live arms and bullets of capitalism in their necks.
I can do this for the first time in the history of my nation, I'm the son of the people.










These paintings are certainly full of our talent, our brotherly feelings that make our lives so beautiful and pleasant, but...


We have to start over, from a place where there's no certainty, where the signs are blurry, and a color cry, where the bodies beat in convulsions like the corpses of Buchenwald, where the red banner develops under the sound of victory, which should never be the last,








He left town and, driven by unknown things, he goes, goes with his comrades, arrives in the mountain forests, where he arms himself, prepares himself, dedicates himself to a new one,





The little plane is carrying you to the sky.






Looking for a new freedom, she wants victims, the one whose victory is determined.






On my first brother, the bandit, on my second brother, the cripple, on my third brother, the shoe cleaner, on my fourth brother, the poor man, I will write your name.



on the desert nomads, on the Medina field workers, on Oran's workers, on Oran's little bats, I'll write your name.






People of color live the most beautiful days of their lives!





























And now, the older brothers at the last corner, stop for a moment in their scary game, living their endless destruction, and doing their part:
"Is it possible that Marilyn, little Marilyn,






















I turn to heaven with a simple and great heart, because my nation is great.










I went down to the ground among my companions of the heart, ordinary and great, because my nation is great.
And I carry with me the morality of a new sun, as long as I'm lost in the future and won in the present, old hope.





I'm telling you, this is my main and greatest duty, because, friends and enemies, politicians and poets, the revolution needs only one war, war, knowing the ideas that will be left behind.
The old ways of the Earth's development, filled with blood.


































- You think he's ready?









Even if I don't solve this case, sweetheart, my experience...


















All we have to do is play our part.









- A good character comes out of life, Johnny, not a lot of medical terms.































Because you're only required to do your part, darling.
















I need it.




Who's always been nice and gentle.

















Darling, my love




I'm freaking out about this idea with Jekyle and Hyde... and it's gonna have bad consequences for me.






She's ready to explode if this guy dumps her.





























Are you ready to sign an official complaint that he's sick?

















- But his words don't have much weight...




























- I would never hurt her, no.































































We need to make this right, Johnny.



















This is the culmination of an internal sexual conflict... old as peace... and based on uncontrolled behaviour towards the opposite sex.
























New patient.











The last reporter who lived on this floor was Ben Franklin.






It gives them the opportunity to make new friends.















































































































I need it.
















Good night, Mr. Barrett.




























I want to help you, John, but I need your cooperation.












































































Well, I just wasn't ready for it...






































































































































And she made me feel important.


I had an obligation to wave the red flag until I met a sergeant from the First Division.





















































































Good night, Mr. Barrett.
Good night, Mr. Pagliats.














Look, if we get him out now, he's gonna get worse... because he's never gonna know what would have happened... if he hadn't stayed there for a while and talked to other witnesses.











Last time I was in this room, I was attacked by the Amazons.































































































































That's what the new organization called Ku-Clux.
























































































































And those ulcers had to be stopped... one day you had to teach them... before you opened all the doors.







I remember my first day. I went to school.



















































































































































- They're coming around, so nice, aren't they?












Oh, you look a lot better than the last time.



















I found the first hint of a radiation belt, didn't I?































Now, if they're the first... to discover the marriage habits of seahorses... then we have to open up the internal structure of the grasshopper's brain?























































































Why would Katie kill him?




















































































































































All I had to do was leave Japan quickly. But where's the wind? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,


































































If we only use 9mm plywood, we need it firmly fixed.
























































I'm willing to pay for your studies no matter what.



































































To test yourself and your abilities, isn't that the most important thing in life?























The big bear is in the sky, and the polar star is on the side.









With such a big hole, we're gonna have to lower the price of the ship when I'm gonna sell it!


























- The boat, it must be expensive.
- It's very expensive.




You don't have to pay for living in this house!












What are you looking for, darling?








Don't be stupid, mother, I don't want any girl.



























First symptoms of me going crazy?














































How many days does it take to get a passport?
All you need for your trip to Okinawa is an identification card.
But I need a document confirming Japanese citizenship.












I've been told that Sikisima Cotton is ready to give you a sail.


















It's not bad at all.






















I love sweets, they need to be well-off.











In the commission, I found an English sextant that I really needed.




I used two large buckets to collect rain water, four medium buckets to pump water, and with red tape, I marked a bucket for the toilet!












More tweezers in case you need to take out the shard.





And I needed pillows in case I fell asleep on deck.
They were so expensive!



We need a break calendar so we don't lose track of the days.
There's a new saying or saying on every page.























The ocean is so big.










If I wave, he might think I need help.


















You can laugh at how many years I've given up roads but not over the 808 bridges of the old city of Osaka, where I was born...

"If the wind helps me, my little yacht will blow me away."











Looks like I've got a bad pronunciation.



























































If I stay late, the weather will get worse.
















All I have to do is cross the ocean.








Thank you, I have something else to buy...





Anyway, thank you very much.
Mom, look how beautiful she is.

















































Well, I think I'm welcome here, and I'm curious about everyone.



Thank you so much for that.
























































I have to stay calm.



































I'll draw you a beautiful picture if you want.



















Thank you very much.


I'm not ready for a trip yet.



It's beautiful.


























I went to the theater and sat in the last row.









































How beautiful...
How wonderful that we don't understand each other.































"You need a diet."






I need to talk to you.





It's just that you're always getting tired of talking about your principles, and you're always talking about how important this is.





Everything must be awfully important and meaningful...




















































You have to be careful when you wander among your ghosts and memories.











He was so kind even though he was so big and heavy.
















It's important.











That's nice of her.
The hero of this humorous story is a sweet but irresponsible man.









































Haven't you eaten since Sunday, sweet Georges?













Bad.

I need a coin to start it.
















Sweet Georges, on Fat Tuesday, we'll have pancakes.










Now they don't, but we were "some milkmen" at first.














































































I think she's ready.











It's only gonna take a while to work out the movement of the hand.
I need some bills.



What about the teeth? Everything okay, how do you want it?













On, I'll lend you these old ones.



















A little debutante and a little box.






















































This one's very handsome.






























Sorry, it's an old friend of mine.


















































































So it's bad to obey the sign of heaven?










He made it more expensive, that's all.








People put money in the drawers of St. Antoine and St. Joseph. But they know very well that both of them are in heaven, and they don't need money there.































I'm ready to accompany you.
My wife will be happy.




















A poor woman who needs them to feed her children?



































He who laughs last laughs well!















He was... he was... more like a little one with a big head. He's got hair with a sedentary.






























- Happy hunting, Inspector!








I'm happy for them.
They must have their own little joys.


















Small creeks form large rivers.
































You want what's inside?


























I didn't find a big suit.


























































































Well... most of the time, I... give in.





And also, my father... there's worse!


















































Go out and try to find out what this new tactic is.

















































Every day I get new complaints from... the supreme authority, you know which one.























And even a new one!
















































It takes time to do that!




























We'll never have a candle big enough to thank heaven for their kindness!

You haven't seen our last prototype yet.
































But rest well, my dear Georges!






She's the most beautiful...
The biggest...






We should put on big pockets! We'd take it tonight as a maximum!




Well, okay, St. Florentine. I'm gonna put on my little pockets.





And they were the little girls that their dads used to rock on their knees! Now...
























Maybe he's small, he's round, he's open-faced and he's got a mustache.






And I was ready to catch the perp!






He who laughs last laughs well!






They'll be happy to visit us at our new residence.



I can't leave France without praying for the last time.

































I'm willing to argue otherwise.







































I don't need protection.






































Beautiful?








































































































































- I'm fine, darling.









































And Ravanel is just old Ravanel.


- It's important, he's not an idiot.














You hesitated, and that's great.



In due course, she's the owner of one of Lyon's expensive establishments.















The kind of blood is what matters.


















































































I can't order big people!









I thought, "Here's the mayor of a small town...












- Not small.















































You'll feel the difference, darling.







That's where you're wrong, darling. 10 francs for a couple, skin from Russia.









So you ready?





























But after all these years of boredom, even an illiterate, but talented, emotionally, may prove to be a better philosopher than Plato.



































You take this away, and the rest doesn't matter.




































Everything was quiet here.













In small temples, like our...
So lost, and the poor souls isolated from the big world...
Ritual objects are beautiful.








Do you know the old bouquet in our county?







We should have Masses every midnight until New Year's Eve...































It's beautiful!










































There's no need in the courts or the gallows, a beautiful finale.




















All addictions are already in nature. All we have to do is choose and pay the price.















































He's very nice.


Still nice.
Well, well, Clara. It's like this is the first time you've seen a man ruin himself.













































There were bad, good, stuff.











All that remains is patience. After a good year of bad, we only live an hour.














































Beautiful Nuremberg Virgin, huh?
































- We need to talk.

- You know you're still sick, darling.























You'll stay in bed, my dear.






Eric, this is the new owner of the castle.





















But during the war, you were a little boy.





The wounds left in my soul are worse than Eric's face.




- Nothing, darling.























Old Mrs. Martha can say.





You need a good rest.














- You need to go back to the gym and cross the park.







Anyway, I'm glad you keep them in this state.






































Nice meeting you.

















Oh, no, it's not crazy, and you know it as well as I do.


















































The doctor in a small provincial town like this knows everything.














































Of course, scientific progress has now been made.
But old methods are still better.









Wake up, darling.



















But why wait so long? Think what you want, I don't blame you.


















I heard screams, went to the sound and went to the old reservoir.


























- Is Martha ready, too? - I think she's already in the car.

- Where's Martha? - Maybe she's not quite ready yet.








He's gonna kill everyone. We need to call the police.
We need help!


























































Thomas was an important bird.

All he had to do was tie his hair with a cord, and then he would look like a priest.









I don't need anyone here.









I need a job.





Pestster, you're growing up, my dear!





We'll spend the last one.

We're gonna spend the last of our money.









But my wife calculated that there should be more.

















































































We need to teach him not to piss off his bosses.






















































Everything we needed.














Why expensive shoes?




















































But my sandals are brand-new.




You're beautiful.







It's the first thing they do.










And we'll start a new life.

And then live in a big city.































And you're a great doctor, you know what you're doing, but you only have two eyes.













































Do you need a report?

I need your help.



























































How would you use your new vision?

One of them, the most important one, I'm right here.

















Come on, uh... - Uh, I need you.






The aples described in the report are ready.












I need to close them.
















My eyes are capable of more.











You read the report and listened to the tape on which Dr.'s first experiment was recorded. Exevier.

















It's time for us to leave." You need to rest.







You need to rest in the ammo.



We need to use all our funds to keep this place afloat.




In the am, we need to examine the patient, the Tanton, in room 3.












I'm very nice.

















I'm gonna have to put up with it.














- All right, all right.





- It's delicious. - It doesn't matter, I like me.


































You have a beautiful spine.






























































We don't need money from their foundation.










With my new eyesight, we can learn the secrets of the world.






























I need guys like you.
We're ready to start.

















When he looks at the other one, he sees what's written on the first one.













































































He'd be doing something big, powerful.











































































The facility isn't big, but you said you didn't care.





















































And the foot, I see through the walls and the stones as easily as I look through the air and sometimes I can barely get through the first layer of skin.

I don't need power or glory... I told you not to come in here.


























It's worse without them.









And you need to find a place where you'll be safe.

















He's only making you worse.







Diane, I'm sorry, I have to go.




- But you need money. - I know.


And on the other side of the desert, we'll find more money than we need.





















































And if you'll excuse me, sir, I need to ask you a few questions.






































And I'm the great darkness that spreads far beyond the time of me... and behind this darkness, the light that shines and betrays me, and in the center of the universe of the eye... he sees everything.
































All the older men care about is meat.




























A new world for you.



























































I need to get some samples.





























































He's too important to him.





















His entire tribe died in the last frost.

































































I tell you what to do, not old people or old women.






















It's a big lie.





















































































He's bad.







It's probably a little hole.







Oh, this rock is bad too!









- First you need girls...






- And don't think bad.

















She's old, you'd hold her back.








You should have stopped her.



































































































Looks like you've decided to be the head of our little company.





But you go first.















I shouldn't have followed them.
























- I don't care what they did.
























- I need water.






























You think you're more important than everyone else.






What about the old woman who opened our hands?


















Big rock.












































- Are the noses ready?


























































It's a bad knife.


- I said, Kal, this knife is bad.













The leader who killed the old woman?
He's a bad leader.













The big rock will shut that place down. And you'll be inside him.

















The new tribe must have come from there.



They're a new tribe.

















I think that's what it takes, Mr. Chesterton.







































































We'll give food and water to the new tribe in the skull cave.




Okay. Watch out for the new tribe.



























































































































It's a little kid.







So either you come out or you buy a new ticket.
Why the new ticket?




Listen, I need some advice.
- What do you want?






































There's a naked man driving in the last car.




Just a little man.








It's a little baby!






















































I need to be cured.





















Who needs his address?















- We need more ladies!




















- Okay, that little ball over there, you're his...








- ours! - It's good for the first time!


























- Trust me, Luli, he's not the man you want.












































You're not gonna make it, you're gonna need training.

























































Okay, if it calms you down, I'm giving you the right to have sex with Serge first.




So, you're gonna make the first sentence of Na over them. Suffer him.




























It's beautiful here.

















There's only so much quiet in the cemetery, darling.














Do not prevent a sinner who is willing to pay for his sins.





































































































All right, come on in, I need your help.












Max says there's gonna be a storm at night, that's great.






















































And if Freddie was the first, it's only because I let him. To be the first.









You're more slutty than even your sister, yeah, you're worse than Luli.















Come here, we need a nurse, and we're all written handsome!







Signor, I need your help.
Please, I need your help, woman in trouble.








- I need something to hide.





















The situation was terrible, I'm so glad you showed up.

















































On the other side of the island. There are beautiful beaches.































































































- I'm glad the house was yours.




















Aren't you too young to go away with these... what are they, Freddie and Max?










































































Same job as any other job. The first ship is the port of destination in North America. And for two years, you've seen nothing but North America itself.

















































But I know how much they need that money.










































You think success in life only takes luck?














Good night, Max. Take a piss, soot, and warm yourself up.









Good night, Max.
- Good night.
- Good night.



Good night, my boy.


- Good night, Max.
- Good night, Freddie.



Is it so important who I was first?

First collision with life.






Don't cry, my dear, please don't cry.




- Take them, I don't need them.























































- Let me hug my new dad.


- Have a good trip!









































































You're my first man.













- Goodbye. Have a safe journey. And sometimes write, write to me.
Have a safe journey, Signor.



- Have a good trip.


















- The catch of a death sentence - terrible words - was the last thing my ear could tell.







































I got the last one.





I was ready to smile through the flour, thinking about how little the word goes.











































He's capable of losing any chance he's ever had.






















































































She's the first one to speak.






























































































Oh, honey, honey, honey!




There's snow everywhere... a lot of it... but what about the heat?






























Can it be fixed, Grandpa, or will you make a new detail?
I'm afraid it's gonna take a new one, honey... and it's gonna take a few days!














































Thank you, my dear.






























































Is your fiancé handsome?







He's a very important man... a good start.










































I'm glad my lord.








































Here we go on the old Silk Road, which has been driven back and forth by traders from Katey for thousands of years.

My caravan is bike, Yeng, so I'm gonna need a lot of food and water before I go to Gobi's desert.





















I'm asking you to listen to me! But I have a job to do!































We need special metals, materials... things that don't exist in Venice!





































I'm gonna use it on purpose... on everyone, but first of all on the Marco Polo water can, tomorrow the caravan will go to the Gobi desert.



















































































































It doesn't matter what form the spirit takes, Susan.
This is important.



































Great performance, my dear, congratulations!
Now we have everything we need.




































































































My dear lady, that would be great!






















Isn't that beautiful?




































Barbara, last warning.



































































It's beautiful!

Absolutely calm.






















It's a beautiful pool.













But they're too big for me.




























































































It's beautiful, isn't it?


























































It's been many years since their last attack, but now they're coming back.
































Well, why don't we just make new keys?












But now your appearance gives you new hope.






- We're his last hope.























- It doesn't matter.
























- What's this little thing?



































No, I won't rest until I reveal this little secret.





















But now, let's get back to our little problem.





























That would mean that their wrists were last moved at least 24 hours ago.



























































I'm not a gram of curiosity, my dear.



























































































On top of three, and the first one down.



































Yes. And speaking of food, I'd love to have a bite to eat.
































































Last time I saw him, he didn't even recognize me.










I had to sit there helplessly and watch him get worse and worse.















































































Remember, no use of force until the Sensorites start first.


My dear Chesterton, they read these thoughts, so everything we think is very important.










"With new dreams, the Resistance rejects the dream of countries united in Christ. And her hot sweet, voicey nightingale...


















That's why, for the hopeless and final act of love,

I found her, and I wanted to see her for the last time.


You need to get a party ticket.







There's nothing worse.













































Beautiful.



















































He said, "I'm swimming for the first time this year."










He had a bright beard and beautiful faces.



































It was the last time we saw each other at the funeral.




You were little, and I grew up.











And if the rest of the houses are gonna have to run away alone!

































Because reality is much worse.




































In the meantime, pretend you need me.



















You look like a little witch.
And you have such beautiful hair!
























I don't know, you're just curious, or it's something else, something more.











My little nephew from Parma...




That's bad luck, isn't it?
I'll buy you a new one tomorrow.





























I'm glad it happened here.












They kept sleeping, and it was a real shame because everyone was ready for Mass.













Farmers will be happy, it's raining again.












I know you're happy, but your happiness won't last.











I'm the worst.



Very nice, isn't it?





Even if it's over, it doesn't matter.









































You're the first person I brought here, and I honored you.


















"He also explained to us that we have democracy because guerrillas died for it, and it will be difficult for us because democracy is like a garden that needs to be cared for every day.


He was a nice boy from Fidenzie.








It was my first year.



















- It's beautiful.
But nothing new.


There was an old wise man like you who had a young student... like him.

One day an old wise man said to a young man:



Behind the fountain, he saw a beautiful city that charmed him.







The old wise man who was still sitting there. And he said,






































The worst thing you can say to a man is you don't believe in his pain.














You know I can't be in small rooms.























































Nothing's gonna make you feel better about 1946 than Bogart-Backall duet in Hawkes' Big Sleep.





























Things happen in life that aren't clear at first, but they're important and change us.





- Maybe we should laugh, but I can't.
I'm just a bore who lists a lot of movies, and tonight you need to be alone.























No, I need to talk to you.












He was willing to hit me because I didn't give him my number.


Sweet man, he said a lot of nice things to me.





I needed to talk to someone, that's all.




























Honey!
My dear friend.






Little liar, you know I've always loved you!


When something happened, you were the first person to understand it.

Big secret.















There are little frogs, but the ones I like are mostly big!












Then we thought it was important to be an Englishman.














My parents said I didn't need to learn because I had land and the earth would never fail.






























She needs to be forgotten.

































What a beautiful light.




























She was beautiful.
















Maybe they were needed in 1948.




I needed a new man.
A world of soul mates ready to protect each other.

























































- He's been okay with everything lately.







She's beautiful.




I'm so happy.








It's not much, but it's exactly what I need right now.















































She's got such a big ass!
And the boss has a big belly! Two boots, a pair!
Well, the rich, the happy, leave me alone! Look, here's what I wanted to tell you tonight's gonna be a new guy at work, apprentice.















Look, it's a very useful job, there's nothing wrong with it!


























































































We must pray to God that there will be no new war!















Happy languages!



















Wait, I'll remember: "Oh, my dear Othello, I love you very much, dear Othello.




"I only love you, my dear Othello, I love only you, my Othello!" Then Cassio shows up.





Wait, he comes in and says, "Good evening, beautiful lady.





No, it's not a good song.



















And the little girls here are almost naked, right?
That's right, but they're small! Yes.










And she's got the curls-- e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e, and she's got the curls-- beautiful curls!










Oh, that's why cows are so calm, they're always looking at grass!
































































































































This guy's a bad guy.



























































































































It's your new suit, you have to keep it safe. We can't often buy you new costumes.





















I drank lemonade, then I danced a little, and then I went home. That's all I have to say. Good night.










Good night.














































The last one was a very good one.









We need those ropes!
























Very nice! If I weren't young!

But she knows what she's doing. She knows everything, my dears!











































You say the painting is indecent, but this painting is a thousand times more beautiful than ours.



There she is, real beauty! Beautiful. And she's looking at you, too!













































































































This is the last time I've asked you. Are you in trouble at work?





















You know, when you were born, we were happy that we had a son.







































I just need to tell him something...







































































You don't think I'd ask if it wasn't damn important?








Full alert, sir, fine.












- Robert. - Is it that bad, sir?



Last and perhaps most important















Goldie, how many times have I told you guys I don't need jokers on the plane?
















Guys, I'm not very good at speeches, but I think something really important is going on down there.






If it turns out that it's half as important as it may be, you're all in line for promotions and personal awards when it's all over.

























































Buck, honey, I can't sleep either.










One. ::....................................................
















I'm ready to set up a code prefix.













A 20-megathon nuclear device will be used if the first one doesn't work.





















































He said war was too important to be left to the generals.

But now war is too important to be left to politicians.
































































We're still trying to understand the meaning of the last sentence, sir.
















The president needs me.















General Torgidson, with all due respect to your armed forces, my men will deal with them without any major trouble.



Second, in less than a quarter of an hour, the Russian radar will discover our planes.




We can easily direct three missiles to each target, and we still have a large reserve for unforeseen circumstances.


General, you know that the generally accepted policy of our country is never to strike first.
















Thank you very much.





















































































Beautiful.

Clean and smooth and intruding beautifully.













































Will you call them first?



























































I've only ever pressed a button in my old Spitfire.












We know that even the worst rainfall falls to a safe level after two weeks.























Our scheme of Judgment Day costs us only a small fraction of what we spent on defense a year.




















When you need to bury the bombs, you don't have a size limit.
































When you made your first attempt











































Okay, well, they took me on the old Ranguna-Inchinawa Iron Road.










































































































































































In a very important case. Get me President Merkin Muffley at the Pentagon, Washington.










































But you thought it necessary to rid us of the forces of evil.






















I'm starting to smell a big, fat communist rat.























Damn it, lollipops, you told me to get to target one!

I don't care how you do it, but you have to get me to target one, do you hear me?









Designation of a new target : 3-8-4.
















It's something you need to see!














- D.S.O. Ready.
- The bomb's ready, sir.


















Take off the first fuse.
First safety off.
- First safety.





































































































It would be extremely naive to assume that these new developments will somehow affect the aggressive policies of the Soviet Union!







Along with me is a memory of the happiest moments of my life.

































Nice to meet you. It's a good thing you came by.
































































- It's less broken than you.






- I really need to see him.



- And the blouse was very beautiful.
























Mara! It's no big deal to be sneaking around with the first person you meet.
- He's not the first person I've met.






























It was the first letter of my life.
I was trembling at the thought that I would read the words of love in it." "Dear Mara, I'm sending you some salt with this letter."


















You old pig!





















Who needs it?
- That's what you and I need.














- What's up, Mara? Are you happy?

I'm glad my daughter's getting married, too.


























No, tell her to come here, we need to talk about important things.




















- You can see it - a new suit!


I'll buy a new one at Volterra.












































I shot him on the last floor.




- Are you glad you're going to Volterra with Bebo?












































































- What's wrong with that?




























- What's up with Volterra?

















That's right. You'd better be seen less here.








































- Come here, Signorina, darling.






































































- You need to get out of here as soon as possible.
























































































































































So we're the last night together.














Mara, I want you to be happy, but it's out of my hands.







































































































- Nice to meet you, Signorina. - Who's that?



































I'm tired, honey. - Yeah, you can see that.

Good night.
- Goodbye, sweetheart.








She's beautiful.
- Too pretty.











- Nice to meet you.
















- It's just a bad mood.




























No, it's my first experience.




- They were very bad.


Look, this is the last one:



- I like it, it's not bad at all.




That's a nice name.





- Thank you very much. But I can't do anything.










To the new Italy with King Humbert of Savoy!








My fiancée is beautiful, but she has... some vulgarness.





















































And I was wondering if I was really entitled to start a new life.




Stefano, are you glad I'm back?







I'm so happy you're saying that!





Mom's worse?




- So my mom's sick after all?



























It's gonna be a big blow to him if you don't come.











































Bebo, do you need anything?


But if you need to... will you let me know?









When I was there, I thought that, but now I saw you and I'm not afraid of anything... I'm calm.
I'm calm, too. There's nothing to be afraid of.


As soon as I get my new pass.
Nice to meet you.










- Did you get any bad news? - Nope.



Remember, I'm always ready to help you. I'm always with you.




- Where do we go? - Last door to the left.

























- It's the sergeant's widow. She filed a lawsuit. - That's bad, isn't it?




































- Don't say that, Bebe, darling! The trial's coming!










It requires a different composition of the court... for which his merit would be relevant, not just his misconduct.


















Please calm down...

















Maybe you've learned something new.















- But she needs to be understood, too. - Next.















- Did you need courage?








Maybe it was the last happy hours of my life.
But now we have to break up, each one of us will go our separate ways.

I'll probably never be happy.











It's very important. He's saved. - Now he'll be acquitted.

- But it could be worse.

Don't be scared if the sentence is harsh and soon it'll be a new amnesty... right after the election.
I'm ready for anything.




It's not true that they gave bad advice.
The thing is, this court sees one bad thing. What matters to them is what happened.



















It's been awful hard for us at first. It's easier now. We're even making plans for the future.





























Our goal, Nissa, is... to create a new and better treatment to keep guys like you out of trouble with the police.

































































When they bring in new furniture and I have time to study...











































That old witch.





























What's worse is that we're gonna steal a car or some money that's gonna put us in jail for a year.


















The Council needs you, so you've never been in their claws before.







- And you're punishing yourself, much worse.







You little, stinking, fucking stinking, you're the one who's whining!










He started it!






























I bet he's got a whore in there.







Then you have to turn the key in the lock to understand why this key doesn't fit.












We need your ability to protest.






















Krister's glad they're playing it again and they're not hiding it anymore.

































That reminds me of that chick I picked up in Old Town.
I remember an old woman who lured me to her apartment.





The further, the better the guests.



That's where my mother used to call it.



And I thought it wouldn't happen because she's so old.























































































You think this is the last interrogation you've ever had?










































And very expensive.
You have to treat him very carefully to prevent the mechanism from breaking down.






It's a very large number.
















































When I realized the inspector was ready to choose, I asked Krister to take us to the theater.











Boys, ready?













I saw the play "Little Peter's Travel to the Moon."



























We need to try again.











It's an expensive player.













































Good to see you.

















Well, the reason he's in a bad mood.
















It will damage discipline and cause great inconvenience to our dear Christer.

















Our dear Krister shares this view.


















You don't have to be so suspicious, Nyssa.







Maybe it's a big loss for us, for both of us.

What a beautiful neck you have.


Small and thin.




It's so beautiful, Nyssa.

It's beautiful.










I molested Kaiza from the council, that lady with the big tits.



















You don't have to take old wounds, but the story with the tape recorder.






But next week, there's gonna be new furniture, a new radio with a built-in tape recorder.












They're too expensive.






That bastard bought himself a new hat.



























You can't, you're too small.














Bad.








She's acting like an old witch.

























You try it, you need it now.
























Dog food's pretty expensive.














Doesn't he feel well?











- I really need some of them.












































































I don't need money.




He needs money.































































Because he sold your old furniture, you made him work for you.

















I've lost so much energy to get them, and now no one needs them.



















































My little boys are so shy?



One more, one less, it doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter if there's such a little boy here.


I need a bed.


























I had to pay for my bad parts and Krister's bad parts.













































- Here you go. - I don't need her.





















Don't worry, no one would dare hurt our little Angelica.























- Do you think it's okay to be beautiful?























Do you need me?


- Nice to meet you.







Cousin, this pearl needs a decent right.



How sweet and modest she is. Isn't that right, Dalaida?



















My dear, young friends, run, play, but away from here!






Well, that's worse. Go on.





Beautiful color, isn't it?

There'll be no king, no brother, no Mazarini.












Cousin can't give me money, he needs it to help Fronde.























- Is this our carriage so beautiful? - Yes.















- Is he very old?







How beautiful you are, even more beautiful than you were.














- What's wrong with that?




He's not only ugly, he's old and scarred and lame.
























I want you to be my first.
You're good, you're beautiful, you're sweet and you're very gentle.
















A big tree by the pond, but you're really coming?










I don't think so, darling.




She's pretty cute.



































Good night, madam.






















It's all set.















- You're beautiful even when you're angry.






And when you're mine, I'm gonna be the happiest person.








Why, my dear Count, do you not observe custom?






You have to respect the customs.



































































- It's not a game, my dear Madness.


































Don't tell me it's too beautiful.
It's beautiful.































Germontaz is Langedoka's first sword!








You're beautiful.





















Yes, darling?





Tell his majesty he'll do me a great honor.


But it's an honor to receive such a guest.















- You must be a big wine fan.














But your biggest jewel is something else. - And you're hiding it from me.









Yeah. These shoulders, this breast, this is a challenge, my dear!





And the biggest donkey.









You were so beautiful last night, surrounded by all these ladies.





















Prince Condé is now in a fine relationship with the King's brother.































Say good night.
Good night, my little one. Good night.


















Go along the Seine to the last island, and there's the first street to the right.





I need to think.







Joffrey is the best husband and a great lover!





- You're the one who needs to be sorry.













I need to speak to Countess de Peirak, I'm from a meter of Falo.



Metr Falo told me you need a smart man.
But I need a lawyer, not a smart man.

Now, let's get down to business, I just need some info and an advance.














The bank's gone! A new horse!






















I'm willing to endure, for Joffrey's sake, for Florimon's sake, and for the baby I'm carrying.











This way is much shorter, 20 steps, and you're on the New Bridge.


Oh, my darling, I'm happy to help you.




I'm your friend and I'm ready to serve you with all my soul and body.


- You're right, darling.










This place isn't the most elegant place, but it's quiet.






































- It was a big original.



The custom dictates that I speak first.
Strongly, you're even more beautiful than my memory of you.















































Beautiful.

































Don't be afraid, darling, you have my cousin's word.




























- Madam, where are you going? - Nothing, dear Barba, the world is great.











Here's your new place.



















































He had suffered serious injuries since childhood, and had been tortured in recent days.





Little duel.

Langedok's first sword.











But God is beautiful.




















































- We need to find him. - I'm with you!











Dear members of the court, when we speak of murder, there have been two attempts in the last days to kill Countess de Peirak in Louvre.














Well, of course I need to be killed.

Fronda's coming and tearing up the kingdom. The Crown Princes want the King dead. But the wind is changing and the King needs a full leader.



He needs to find the poison.
































Be cool, he won't feel anything.




























Promise me, Angelica. That's where we're gonna start a new life.

























And we don't have to go to America. You're staying here with us.
I'm offering you the strength you need to start over.


They don't have very pretty faces, but they're all nice guys.

Angelica, you'll still be happy.


















































































































- Easy!



















































































I recently bought a new press...






The intellectual may well be important in its own way.





















I don't want any plays, no novels, no poems, okay?






















































God is great!



































- Go and look at my new press.


















































Not a single big name?


It's too expensive.
New paper, no prestige yet-- how can you demand a price like Suren Banerjee?










But I need to be satisfied with my job.



















































































Suppose the government introduces a new tax.




When the government introduces a new tax, which happens all the time under Lord Litton, we will see how it affects the people of our poor country, how it will suffer.
What's the big tragedy, or Romeo and Juliet?




We need to get stronger, physically.





















Beautiful style!










Good night!

















You'll be happy too.





































































All women are beautiful.

They're all beautiful.


She's beautiful, but not perfect.











A little duck... a little bridge in the middle.






You can write beautiful poems sitting here.






























Oh, when will the day come when I reach the last page... and the last line and the words "end"?









New night























If it's good, why's good, and if it's bad, why's bad.








Think of Addison, Style, Emerson... or do I have to write stories?











- You need to make an effort.













There's a beautiful view of the temple tower.
















"Bishwabandhu" won't accept articles from new writers.



Bless you, dear Manda.



































We just need Amal's consent.









































































The last decade of the 19th century...
New Year's Eve and you hear Big Ben's call.














- Good night!

Good night!



























You're not doing anything wrong, are you?



But she has a bad husband?
Why is it bad at once?

Am I not bad?









































Oh, my brother's lovely wife.






























You know the latest?
































































































After the first song, we can be even more liberals and listen to Nidhu's love song.





Remember the terrible last day,

Remember the terrible last day,
When everyone talks, but they won't find the right words on this terrible day!










































You have such a beautiful voice.











Well, we need to get ready.






































































































































You don't have to do anything, Amal.

I needed to talk to someone about it.














"Dear Bhupati, I think that after what happened, my presence here would be a burden for you.









- Your dear friend Amal.





















You stupid old...
















My first gray hair.







Make a new newspaper, then I'll start writing.






You're the first and I'm the second!

















I should have asked Nishicant to come.






























Dear Bhupati!










































































- What about you? Yeah, we need to find out.












They need to be put down.









- We need a carpenter here.










Don't act like a little girl. - It's a glove finger, and there's something inside.


































































- What an important bird! And why is he a junkie? He tried it once and was very sick.



































- What are we gonna do about it? - That's what we're gonna do.


















It needs to be dissolved.




























































































- If you keep saying that, it's gonna get worse.
















































No, it's not good here.


It's gonna take some kind of setup so it doesn't fall.


- Is it gonna be okay in a vase? - Excellent, Rita. - That's a great decision.
































































We're gonna have to keep it as a relic. - There's a surprise hidden inside.

- Thank you, you're very nice.
























- This is the first time I'm gonna be sick.


























It doesn't matter if he's bad or good. - The bad one's even more useful.


























- No, I took it after you. It's gonna take a little while.
















































I need you.






















You just have to choose!





- I'm ready.



- That's a great idea! - What do you think you're doing?







































- Beautiful! Beautiful stockings!


































Do I really feel bad what you want me to do?






It's still a long way from Christmas. First we have to celebrate Easter.



I'll be so old then.






























































You're gonna be the first to raise them, and you're gonna be the first to shape their character with your parents.

























- It's beautiful! - What a beautiful baby we have.

































Can I be calm about authenticity?























- The size of this cord. - You know I have a bad memory.










- I'd love to.



- You have to fight for them. - I'll have ice cream, as usual.














This is a real disaster for the family. - You could help them a lot...
















In the meantime... look how beautiful it is.






































- I may be old, but I know a few things.





- Who are you making me look like? - We need these dishes.



- Take a look, Professor. This is where the oldest things come together.



- It doesn't fit. I'm gonna need a vase from a porcelain more caller.






- I already said I need it. - I know. It's a nasty thing, but it's necessary.



- You're like a little girl.

























It's not an excuse for... it's important that your examination essay be a brilliant proof of your impeccable training.








- Go first!

































- Today, as always, I've been late since the first meeting. - Yes.









Nice ears. Like a real musician.





- Giovann's okay? - First grade!














- Who? - Beautiful stranger.
Beautiful stranger? Ah, this one!















Beautiful!
It's beautiful!






I always rely on the first impression. I wasn't disappointed.





On the first love date, flowers are amazing helpers.

































You don't have to make this harder.




I don't need peppers, I need an ashtray.





I stick to the theory that you have to enjoy every step.









My dear, let's finish.
I've got more to do. My time is expensive.







Dear Marquetti, I couldn't even assume that.





I'm sorry, dear Marquetti, but it's not gentlemanly of you.



I'm so bored that I have to mix my personal life and work all the time, while I'd like to go to some lonely, wild place with a big blue sky above my head.







From now on, no more business, nothing but sweet and sweet words.






















































- I need to make a call. - Call me on the way.
























- I need to finally call.



- That one on the right." "Little women."















- It's for my wife. - Do I need a Pourquoi pas?











We need to get this rehearsal started right away.











You see, smaller than hers... almost like hers... but, like, a little smoother.















Dear Marquetti! Since you're making it very difficult for us to do this,
- Maestro Spadini is ready to pay the deposit immediately, along with interest... - But... - and replace you.


































For the first time in my time working with her, the lady found a great partner.



You'll have to go to the office tomorrow.


























Honey, did you ever think of a plot in Spain's square?







- We need to go get him.
































- Don't be too modest, it's our friends' house. - What friends! - Take off your pants!










You have to be careful, maybe it's a dangerous disease, and it's very, very contagious.






































So, we have to divide this section.





































- I need to make a call.





















You? Didn't you say it was bad for your relative?











- Maestro, we have to go.
































No, no. Please put the big one down. The little one's the other way up.
Finally, for eight hours, I'm not gonna see these damn papers. I really need this trip to Milan.







- I'll wait till the last one. - I'll do my best.






























































And when you get back to Rome, call me, we'll make you a great program!












But I didn't have the strength to open it, my hands trembled, she slipped out, fell and crashed, and there was a bang, and there was a tooth surgeon's tools, and there were thirty-two little, white, elephant-like things with them,
It was the thirty-two beautiful teeth of cousin Berenika,







The one who's been following me for the last five days.



Yeah, it's my first trip to England, and it's definitely my last.

















































You're very nice, and I'm happy you rejected my bet.

A hundred pounds, too much for an honest journalist.














It's an honor, Mr Poe.









When he's the most connected to a beautiful one.
So the death of a beautiful woman is the most poetic thing in the world.






























































The old family portrait looks at me like I'm alive.


















I don't have any more servants and the first floor is empty.



There's nothing new in London.




You're very nice and you can imagine yourself in a good light in front of women.











But you're more beautiful than your portrait.

















Good night, Foster.









I'm telling you one last time:



















Maybe I'd be happy with him.

You were never happy.

Julia, I beg you, I beg you, give me one last chance.
No, you'll only be happy with me.







"I'll be waiting for you at midnight in the park under the big oak.






You have to be an idiot or an insane person to abandon society to such a beautiful woman.
































































You need something stronger to drink.





















And the last form is feelings that don't last, but can last long after death.

In short, no one dies at all until he's ready to die.













When the circulation stops, the degradation will begin, first of all the sensory system will die.












Soon the dead will once again survive the last episode of their earthly existence.

He inherited it from his great-grandfather, First Count Blackblad.











































- Goodbye, darling.









































































Our first night will be unforgettable!
























They need your blood.

































































































St. Peter closed the gate and all the Angolans went to rest and only one didn't sleep like an old scrotum because he was having fun with us and he went for a walk.






All set, take them away.































I need to talk to him on another case.
















If we have to, we'll follow them to Sicily.











A little concussion. The worst part is shock.





You don't have to look at these.




























What do you think I should sell?





Right. That's right, I have to write it down.



I had to make a lot of calls.















When I was a kid, my parents moved to Bologna. They then moved to Milan.
And now I've been back in Bologna for, like, a year. But I gotta get out of there too.



















- I have to go to Ferrara...

Because I have to go home... but maybe this afternoon.



- But they're worth more than that.









Then, to eat an animal, you have to love it?



Chicken? Maybe, kittens? So small, soft, graceful?













































I'll be honest, if I have to leave, I prefer to leave it as it is.

One day, when he had to go to a relative's funeral, I thought I'd go crazy.
























- Then you need to get up here.





There's nothing to be done. He said that in order to move, he had to offer so much money to laugh.




































That's a big word, Juliana.





What's important is doing what's right for you and for others.
So that your conscience is calm.
Mine's calm.

I thought it was just a beautiful set of words!








- Nice to meet you.



























You have to drink them on the ninth day when the yolk begins to turn into chicken.



















Don't go, darling.

































He's like a merin... every couple of days he's got a new girlfriend.

- What's the beautiful lady's name?



































Because you're a big pig!













Only they're big. They're staying at the island.







It was a nice game. You know other people, too?





Because he's always ready like a predator. Always ready to go to a factory with difficulties or a woman in crisis.














And if not, who needs it?




















It was almost new.
































No, you don't have to say yes to me, like I'm...

























I don't want her!




































Maybe you shouldn't.




















You have to appreciate where you are.





































There are ready-made houses with all the facilities.



































It's beautiful!
Go and see what a beautiful ship has come. Go on!
It's so big... and it's all white.



Honey, if you're not saying you're in pain, what can I do?















Say it, darling.




















among bucklanks, gulls, and cute rabbits.


Natural paints were so beautiful, and nothing broke the silence.








































He doesn't need me.
I need him.












Why do I always need others?












We all need treatment.


























And I... I feel bad when I'm alone.








































































































































































It's a lot of money, Colonel.
But it's too small a price to pay for going to hell.





Only after you commit a big crime can you be forgiven for all the crimes you've committed.






















They all died happy.



















The worms eat her beautiful eyes.




















































































I need a brave man.



























































































A great war without fear of God or the Devil.























































Lampiao was great, but sometimes he was small.

I'm afraid I'm gonna dream of all the lead I've released on good and bad people.









































Good to see you.






Nice. Right, darling?






It's new, of course.




















The last laugher laughs well.
































Who's willing to make you happy.






Yes. But your article's still bad.







- Honey, are you ready? - Yes.





























Come on, you're not the first.






You're willing to do anything to boost the circulation!











Hey, front page and half page!
















































You're gonna publish a new story on the front page of your newspaper, and you're gonna expose your deception.









Honey, can you hear me? Open up!
Are you sick, darling? Are you sick?































































































I'll give you an article on the front page, Fantomas will be happy.




















Dear friend, would you come here?

As a punishment, I'm gonna make you work on a very important project.


The only thing that's missing is the brain.





I've had quite a lot of experience.





It's a pleasure.








Thank you, darling.
This widow is good for you as an aunt. She's not just beautiful...





















































- All set? - Yes.

- Are the girls ready?





It is a great honour for me to be the organizer of this fairy show by the Paris Jewellery Union and our news daily Dawn.

The most beautiful models of Paris will present to you the most beautiful ornaments of our capital.



















































She needs to get used to the new environment.










Look, she's happy.













Again? What's new?

- I'm not an idiot, tell me what's new!






















































- Fantamas' new crime.











How long have you been here? That's a very stupid joke, my dear!



Phantomas' new crime.































Honey! Honey, wake up!






- Oh, I feel so bad!


Don't worry, darling.














It's a good thing you're very pretty.
For the first time in my life, a woman saved my life.










Pay attention, darling!




- Honey, I'm sick!


















Of course, darling, it's so logical.














It's a little surprise.





















We need to set up traffic posts immediately!









































































































- No, you first, get in.












See how small she is? - How much?



































I'm so glad!





















- We're happy, Chief. - You bet.













































The only thing that matters is that the harvest is removed and the cows are well-off.




- That's nice.
































- We need a man like you. You're a tough man, that's good.






















You'll be happy.



















































Do you really have to walk the streets like that to be noticed?




















Gold pen, sweetheart, our ancestors keep us in poverty.
















I'm wearing the latest fashion. Fashion is a name for you, but it's just a thing for me.
You need to be in the light more often, kids! So...



Look at that! Don't die my wife's old tailor...

- My commander! Chief! Ready.















Attention. Ready?
























Just one nudist to catch, the smallest one.






















- We need backup.
It's not the quantity that matters, it's the quality of people.










How long did it last, you old pirate...


















We need a volunteer. To get into the nudists' ranks.














You've had the privilege of first contact with an enemy. I hope your comrades are jealous of you.






















- Easy, you won't miss it.

























He's very good at it.











































































You're so sweet, but don't tell Dad I'm here. I'm running away.








































- Good night.
- Good night, madam. - Good night, Nicole.








Until he starts doing stupid things, that's all that matters. She can get bored in the first few days. - Yeah?

















- I have to. Good night.






You shouldn't leave it here, you might steal it. It doesn't matter yet.
















I'm gonna find her and learn from her bad habits. I'm her dad.








































































Look, I'm willing to pay back, no bazaar.





I get it, it doesn't matter today.






























Not always, but now I'm ready to do anything.


- It's important. When you meet him, he'll have mercy on you.










































It's a very important nuance.



































Monsieur, my parents will be pleased to meet you.




- Andre de Voisalier. - Nice to meet you.













- Dad doesn't mind, he'll be happy.



- Dad's saying that his suit... he's still, you know, not ready...
















- Nice to meet you.
See you tomorrow. Goodbye. Yes.
























You're almost as beautiful as your car.

- Enough, what do you want?








































I'm glad you brought the car.




























But when they're ready... I'll show you.





You have given us great pleasure in your visit.
I hear you live in New Orleans.




I can explain the technique if the ladies are interested. I'm interested, especially New Orleans!
It must be a wonderful city. Old wooden houses, where you can rest after a damn Indian attack, enjoy socializing with the prettiest women...














Excuse me. Monsieur Adjudan, how lovely.










- I have important business to attend to.
- More important than me?















- What's new?



















I think we need to see each other right away. I'd like to have a word with Monsieur.










































































































You need my skin.

























It's necessary to relax, Mariagrazia...































































Mariagrazia, you're only making it worse!
























You have beautiful legs, Carla.












- As long as it takes, you know?





You're gonna have everything with me: clothes, car, travel, getting to know new people.














- Our beautiful Carla.

















































I'd be happy to live in the same apartment, but Carla has to find her husband. And you know what people like.






She's young, beautiful...



And we all know who's gonna get out first... who's gonna get out the door first.




You managed to set a price of 800,000 lire, knowing it was worth more.



































I need to talk to you.








Sometimes, it's much worse to avoid such humiliation. - Humiliation?


- Yes, darling.











She made a lot of them, but only one bad thing.























She taught me a good lesson tonight. You need to be calm and happy.























- Good night.
- Good night.
Carla, to your new life.

A new life!















And if you're so eager to start a new life, no one's stopping you, you know?



It can't be worse than suffering... every day, always!






It takes millions of words to dive deeper.










You should be happy!
Champagne will make us happy!












You remember the big girls don't cry at the table.







































You were a very beautiful girl, quiet...






I'm sick!

Why do you drink when you're sick?






You need to calm down. At the Ritz Hotel, you should be the prettiest.



















all the houses are upside down, the smoke that goes down, not upstairs, the people walking in their arms, who will tell you exactly what they're thinking. Beautiful.














Yes, darling.
You're definitely the prettiest.
- It's not that bad, is it? - What?





















That's a bad idea!




























Brunette, young, very beautiful...





But that's not true, my dear Lisa!










































It's not expensive, but it's always necessary, isn't it? - Thank you.








You were beautiful!







She's not bad, is she?

On the other hand, she has a big house and she's lonely.


























As soon as the candles are ready...














































Now, you need to sleep.











You need peace.







I need to see you tomorrow, now.
We have a lot to talk about, don't we, Leo?
We need to talk business.






Good night.
- Good night.
- Good night, see you tomorrow.






Are you sick too?


- I'm in a bad mood than you are.




















- Correct, yes, for the new tenants.
Why do you wear a coat if you have a nice robe?














Of course, although it's no longer necessary... Leo's already given us a respite.








He can be harsh and tough, like all business people, but Leo is the first person to know how much we care about this house.













Always ready for criticism, always arguing about everything!



































Do you... need money?

Okay, I have to go.

I have an important meeting at the Ministry.
If this is about the Ministry, it must be something important.


















- No, honey.







You haven't had a drink in over 20 years, my dear.





It doesn't matter. It's beautiful here.


You're lucky.



































I don't think you need to be afraid.



























Bye, darling.



















Michele, put down more.

















Leo, today I'm as happy as a child.
























She's changed, happy...












Listen, darling...
























Michele, there must be an understanding between us... something more...






You probably weren't ready for this?

Now you're saying it doesn't work just because you wanted... a beautiful reason to lie.
































































You don't have to explain anything, Carla.
























- It doesn't matter, Michele.



















For a higher price than yours.








A new life!




















Fifthly, the last reason is you've already slept with me.





Your "new life," Michele... isn't that absurd?
















































Beautiful.








I think the living animals are prettier than the dead?








































What a beautiful writing paper.











Madame's father is a very sweet old man, well-mannered, kind.









What beautiful things you have in your suitcase.



New maid, monsieur.







That's a nice name.
It's very beautiful.




















You gotta be careful with that lamp, too.















Bravo, Madame will be pleased.













Isn't it time to turn your back and go to the last and decisive fight?









Marie is beautiful and short too.















You know, sometimes I get tired, and I'd love someone to read to me.
It's so nice to hear a nice voice.



Beautiful writer.



So for this moment there is no stable substance, because the wine that we drink and the freedom that we proclaim has become funny and worthless, and we need a good dose of will.


What are you, you don't have to be afraid of me.



























Well, dear Marie, what can I do?


Beautiful girl.












You're not here in Paris... not many people are happy here. You must be having a hard time here.








I don't care about that old fart.






























I'm ready to have some fucking fun, too!
I'd do anything for love!










I so want to make you happy.
























I'm talking about the new maid.



























- It's not the first time I've eaten truffles.












































We need her. I told you, the clerics are with the Jews.






















The last girl cost me 1,500 francs.
Darling, a girl like Celestine, from Paris...





Good night, Dad.
Honey, don't worry about Celestine, I'm not gonna...









Wait. Don't take the last line.





















Little sweet Celestine.


























Let's see, old canals!




















- Skin. But they're so beautiful.























I'm gonna fix them, and I'm gonna take my expensive shoes with me.


- What do you want?





It's ready.






You don't understand, but I'm right. Nothing more important to me.



You're an old, ugly bastard.
And you... are a damn beautiful woman.











- He needs to get some power.

































































All the worse.

















































































Very nice.


You can't understand a person at first sight.








I'm old and ugly.








































Old asshole.


























I'm ready to answer all the charges, but first I'd like to know if he has any witnesses.
































































I think you killed little Claire.




















It's not about little Claire.











I need you forever.


- What do you want? - Listen, darling...






Yeah, it's very important.

About little Claire.



When you're at the scene of the accident... you have to bring them... and in some cases... you have to be ready to examine the car at the scene.

Well, that's worse.
Good to see you.
We need to talk.



































That's not what I need you for.






























With a wife like you, gentle and sweet.


Here's what you need, woman and order.
You're cute and you're not crying.



























- I don't need another one.
Even though you think I'm bad.



Now, dear Joseph, tell me you killed Claire.


















But you're free, I hope you'll be happy.










Weren't they a big sin when they were young?











Little cocktail.

































Nice place here.


























































































Dino's last night.







Imagine, she's 85 years old, and she doesn't need glasses.






I think you all know I'm here for the last night.
Tomorrow morning, I'm going to Hollywood and I'm going to make a new movie. Me, Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr.... and Joey Bishop." It's called "Little Women."





























It's like Custer's last fight.



































Yes, darling?

Please, honey, not now.
Mulligan, not only do you have a bad hearing... you also have wooden fingers.


Well, I need money, but what's your excuse?














































Bye, darling.

















You're gonna have to put it in the first number!






Are you ready?
































That's exactly what I need. Breach of the norm. Surprising bend.















































This new dentist.



































































I'm married to the most beautiful girl in town, and one day she'll leave me.

















































I'm the most beautiful.
















Nice to meet you.








"Remember "It's Love"? 37 weeks in first place.






















































Big luck, huh?










































You have to take an oath.





Is it that bad?





I'm gonna have to write a new detail. From L.A. And if they don't have it, order it from the distributor in New York.




I've got to get back, I've got TV shoots.







I could take the valve... with old Chevy and sharpen it for him to come.













































































And if there's anything else you need...
Hello, darling.



Very nice.
































Sorry, honey.








You don't have to explain.




















































I want it ready by nightfall.
You don't need lace on the collar.
You don't even need a nigger.
And we don't have to wait for the night.


That's exactly what I need. Breach of the norm. Surprising bend.






















And worse still, she's crazy about him, too.












































Nice lamb.


























This little anniversary gift was brought to us by Barney.


























I think I'm gonna get some sleep myself. To be sweet and sweet.

Something tells me it's gonna be a big night.
Come here, darling.





It was the worst day of my life.
I think it was beautiful.


















Nasty, angry, screaming, annoying, old wallet!













Yeah, I was a little disappointed in the first night. When there was no room for us. We had to save it in your old Rambler.

Honey, here's a picture.








Orville, is this some kind of new game?


























Well, maybe a very small piece.
In that case, I'm small too.

















Listen, Bertha, do you still need new covers... for your van?









I need you.














Well, if you don't need $25...



































Well, the last time I had a job like this was July 4th.








We need 400 more signatures.

Are you sure you don't need help?


























I guess the wives will always be the last to know.













































Honey, what's the matter with you?















































What else does he need, a recommendation?








Don't go straight to the piano.
















First thing you have to do is take it off.
































We need to pretend you're my wife.















































I think it's very nice, Polly.






I read about it in a women's magazine on home economics. A decent bride should know how to make her husband happy.

























































You know anyone who needs 70 plastic hoops?



He had small holes.

You know, little holes in nails.
You've got big holes, for example.





That's why I had to work at the Poop to scrape money into a new car.




















You should be nice to him.































































































Usually, it was an old lady, half-deaf, half-blind... sitting here and... knitting.








He's got little holes.


If you have little holes in your nails, you're a gentleman or a scientist.


I have big holes.










































"What's a beautiful girl like that for?"















































Here I am, your old winemaker!





























Nothing in the last few days.
You're going to see a lawyer first thing tomorrow.








You're angry, you're screaming, you're annoying, old... you want to know what he calls you?



I'd like to propose a toast to my beloved wife, who's been with me so bravely for the last five hours.























Honey, you better play something of yours.











What a beautiful piece of material!




No worse than "Goodbye, Rome."



Did you hear that, darling?

















Oh, she's ready for anything!





























Do you realize this is the first song we sold?












































I'm afraid I have some bad news for you.
Bad news?
















No, darling, mi-bemol.



You'll miss the first pitch. Either the first half or whatever it is you call it.




























I'm not well, I'm not well, I'm not well.














I'm sure this song would have been even more beautiful.




































That's what a wife is for.
Are you gonna be okay, honey?





Bye, darling.







And if there's a big success, maybe he'll make an entire album.
























Hollywood's big shot.























If you want to have fun, buddy, go to the belly button. And don't try to destroy a happy family home.
Is my car ready?
































Okay, darling.



Yes, darling.

































































Another Italian song I need... like a dog with a fifth leg.






















































But you need money, you put it on the car.




You don't have to worry.





















I liked your house, especially the big kitchen.
































For the past three days, she hasn't ordered anything... no milk, no butter, no eggs.



Just a little misunderstanding.























Oh, you're beautiful!




























































Did you hear that, darling?


I'm gonna ask Charlie Greene to demand some big alimony.





It's a beautiful song, isn't it?



















































We're ready for a bayonets attack!















We're getting old, honey, we're getting older.




You should have asked...































































































































Sometimes I'm even happy to see this town, even through wire.





















You're putting yourself in great danger.





































- I have to go.













































The strong lift it up just to move on to a new offensive.













































Are you happy?

You should be happy.





Well, that's a good thing you figured it out.























































- Beautiful!

The first thing I love about you is your hands.





























You're a big kid.









































You've changed a lot lately.

Is that bad?












The time will come, and we will be happy again.
Do you think I've ever been happy?

































And then one day, people will come up with a new game -- new figures, new rules.
























Honey?















- Come on, honey.



- One of those lovely notes.




Is this the new saline after shaving?








I'd be happy if I could do without him.




And every time they say that they're happy about it.




















I'll call Nellie, if I need her, you, if I need you in the ice company, if I need ice in the coal company, if I need coal and happy people, if I need happiness.
Yeah, honey, I'm gonna be okay.






No, I'm just kidding, honey.






Such a big suitcase for one little weekend trip?









Honey, it's really time for you to leave, or it's gonna be a steady flow of cars.












Happy weekend!









Well, that's why he's here.


























Whoever was, I'm gonna build a little temple for you.
























That old drunk?


The old alkasha? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,














We're gonna save you, honey.




















Good old, penance, penance, penance.
























I need someone with a suitcase to help me get through this.






And you need someone to keep you away from wine for a long time?














Alouette, gentille loutete







































What you found here is huge and very important, and I'll be grateful to you for the rest of my life, but let's not lose our heads of greed.
































I'm trapped in a little private elevator!







I need help.



















An old drunk and a fat slut?









I need to find a place where I can stop the bleeding.





Hey, what about this big old fuzzy crib?





































You're our truck, our little old truck.




















Oh, even animals have more compassion than you!




















You are something on which most of the taxes I paid go away to take care of and feed you like this.












I imagine every room in the hospital is a jungle every cozy little room where someone's lying unbroken or dying.


























It's Sad, it's Sad, it's just the old fat Sad, sweet.











Wow, thank you very much.















There's a great big house here!










I'm sure it'll be better than an old shower, won't it?



It's okay, Essy, honey.


















I mean, it's the worst thing they've got.












- I'm really glad you feel that way.



















I'm not Jesus, honey. That's a fact.




What do you need me for?




































































































































Saved an old fox's life for a few minutes, didn't you, Fox?



















She made two homemade cute little legs.





He says, "Dear Mother..."














There's something important about the letter.
Something that might be more important than 10 grand, something that's here in the house.



"Dear Mother









I had an old granny raven who was a saint.

















He had a lot of nice friends among women.





















He's lying on the floor like a bunch of old rags.


The old crow.
Old crow, baby.








Must have been the old drunk who called them here.













































Bring that old crow over here!


Do you think I'm like that old drunk?

















































I need help!
I admit, I need help!






I need help!








I need a safe.


- We need to help her.




















I think it's bad.








Hello, darling.









Come on, honey, hurry up, we still have to change.




I'm sorry, honey, but I have to kidnap her.



















If there's anything beautiful, let it be seen.






What a beautiful wife I have!


























She was last seen in a car with a young blonde.














You're very kind, Signor Kalise, thank you very much.


Dear Andrea, congratulations.


Very bad.








- Dear Mariotti, how are you?









Oh, my dear deputy!










Let's just say it. Do we need a permit for the Chinese Wall?







Now you're gonna be satisfied with the little afternoon!



Sorry, honey.




It was an excuse. I need your help to get away from this boredom.









You're so bad!






























There's nothing wrong with Signora Cristina.

































I was happy to find him in Paris four years ago.




No! No! If you need to shop for a new house, I can help you.













Do you know what you're talking about, darling?




I'd love to.


















Not bad, is it?














Last time I danced with you, it was three years ago at your wedding.


That was the last time I danced.

















If anyone goes through, they'll only see the front license plate, the little one that nobody reads.














Yeah, I'm ready.
















Honey, you're not home, and I'm not your wife.


It would be worse if the opposite happened.



Always "darling."

Is that you, darling?

No, I'm not ready yet.








Bye, darling.





















Honey, I can't go to the barbershop every day.


Yes, darling.





































Okay. But don't be angry, which will be worse.


































I don't know. Today I felt like a happy husband.

I have a beautiful, young, faithful wife...


Dinner ready?





You're gonna wear your gorgeous gourmet, and I'm gonna wear a blue suit.






Whatever you want, darling.





You married your dear Andrea.






Just what you need for your new house's living room, you know?


























Of course they're more expensive.











They're here, ready to go.










We'd need a large advertising company, like beer, skin, potatoes...
















































At least let me see the baby one last time, huh?



But this is the first time you've ever gone?
















If you knew how important cathedrals are to me in Viterbo!





















Because, now admit it, I'm sure I'm not your first.































Vivaldi's music is very beautiful.






















































Yeah, at the new hotel. What's it called?" Empire................................












The last surprise was two silver fish for 400,000 lire.










You should know that beautiful women get everything they want.
Yes. And you should know that the husbands of beautiful women don't like being led by their noses. What?









I'm sick, I'm very sick. All right!




















Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, darling.


























In 38 years, this is the first favor I've asked you to do.

First?

The first thing you asked for was when you were still wearing short pants.








































































When the staff is old and tired, there's nothing else left.


The "Baby Doll Monastery" model from cotton with beautiful color lace.





















































The last hat I wore was a hat.

Don't you need a 17th-century springboard for the pool?









I think that with my wife like this, I could really be calm.










Beautiful and honest.















































But I'm not much of a carpet fan. They're unhygienic, full of dust, and you trip about them.
















But this is a new game?



















































































Anything, darling, will set an example for you.













Poor man, I'm sure this isn't the first time!










































Okay, if you need scissors, they're in the drawer of the dresser!





























It's beautiful.








When you have a young, beautiful wife, a good home, and things are going well, you can endure and talk a little bit.


















I was authorized to bring bad news to the families.













































I'd love to go eat at the restaurant.












I'm sorry, honey, I'm really sorry, but I have to go.

My husband hardly ever comes home and I so need company...





























First hypothesis:



She can push me away and then lie down with the first mailman to bring the telegram.

















Have a safe journey, Signor Andrea.

































It's too easy, darling!







I'm ready to forget, I'm sorry.



Look, Andrea. I'm no better than the others, but one thing I'm sure of. If I fall in love with someone one day, trust me, you'll be the first to know.

















You're saying that you're religious, I'm sure that Dr Mario, who doesn't care about anything, you said it all.





























That's all you need.


When blind, when he gets his eyes back, he's happy to see, but he doesn't care what he sees.







I'm calm, my heart's in peace.




It's too much, darling!



No, darling!
With Don Mario, you'll be ready for 8 Ave Mariam, but with me, no!






















But my daughter, how did this happen? You admitted having a lover, you made up a connection, and you hope your husband can be calm.
I had to do something to prevent the worst.




He said he'd be so calm, but if he hadn't been like this, he'd have killed me. I'm sure.
Be brave, darling, calm down!













She needs to calm down, and you talk coffee.






When he saw her, she was calm.











No, don't worry. Stay calm. You did well to come here.







































Logically. You need to tell someone. We need to talk.





















Yeah, the first thing that came to my mind.



























































The first thing that comes to mind.










































It won't happen again, darling. No, no.


























We leave Sunday very early. With a gun on our shoulders, we'll play well and have a happy and happy day.





































First thing you're gonna see is this big house. This is where Admiral, Her Majesty's retired sailor, lives.

- Is the gun ready?






































Little monsters ran away from me for the last time.



















Madame, I'm glad you're home.





As an individual man, he's very nice, but he's being dumb in the middle of himself.



































Sweet Katie Nanna, will you leave?

































Amazingly cute hat.





- Honey, our kids...














- They're not here, darling.


















- Yes, darling.










Thank you very much.










































They're not looking for an honest, hard-working girl.
They need a ferocious tamer.
I'm sorry, honey, but I was hoping Katie Nanna could handle the kids.
She seemed so important and harsh.






Choosing a babysitter is an important and delicate task.






- Of course, darling.






- Yeah, honey.





Great, George.








We'll be better when we have a new nanny.

I'd be glad if you could help me.









"The two adorable children need a nanny."

To get to us, you must know that you are good and beautiful.



And the color of the eyes is cute.
You must always be funny, gentle, polite, happy.



Smelling something really cute, not some nasty soap.

And if it's gonna be fine, I don't think it's gonna be too scary with us.





















- Is the gun ready?












































First item : "Goodbye."

Point two: "Nice eye color."





























On the other hand, probation is not a bad idea.













- Yeah, it's done, it's done.






Tell me, is she exactly what we need?
















She thinks we need all the babysitters?











A couple of strokes, and it's all set.





Don't judge things at first sight.

































Beautiful.





It's beautiful.







Our first game is called "Good start, it's half done."


















Sings without words, you see, and the house is ready.



























Well, not as beautiful as I'd like.

















There's no money to take from anyone else, but my coat is happy with a couple of coins.
My cap is happy with a couple of coins.






Burt, it's good to see you.


The snake was chased for the last time, wasn't it?






















































- You look cute, too.

















































Maud's beautiful, Phoebe's beautiful. Jen and with?















Very nice.
Actually, it's nice... if you want to stay away.



























































That's sweet.












































But just so you know, there's a lot of power in it.



And she's beautiful.



























































Fine, it's your business.























She's as happy as a java.









- Thank you very much, sweetheart.













Thanks, honey.










You have to tell him when you don't know what to say.









I'm perfectly calm.
And I don't need to cheer up.


Sorry, honey.

I don't mind if everyone's happy and happy.




- Yes, darling.

- What, honey?





The first thing is for the piano tuner.


























Thank you very much.










I'm so glad you're here.


He's never been so bad, to be honest.








I'm glad...
It's good to see you, Mary.



Honestly, darling.









He's gonna get worse.

Yeah, whatever it is, the face needs to be calm.
















Just give me a reason, I'll be ready to scream.


That's cute!
































































- Thank you, darling.





Honestly, I didn't mean to mention it. We need to think of something sad.


That's what I need.





































































But now it's important for them to understand responsibility.



























So that they may be adorned with the steeds of their reckoning.




There is a world of things worthy and proper.












The kids have a big day tomorrow.



Honey, that's what it sounded like.






































Sometimes little things can be very important.




Day after day, an old lady goes to St. Paul's Old Church in the morning.


































































Fine, fine.












Remember who your two pence was at the right time to invest in the process.












All in two pence, properly invested in the most famous, and for what to do, the best Dawes, Tom, Mooseley, Goabbs, only the obedient bank.










And if you feel the percentage of that perspective, the weight and the power, you'll be an important sir, and you'll be proud of yourself.


















Two pence, at the right time, well invested in the most famous and, to what end, the best.








































An old friend wouldn't hurt you.

























It's bad when a living soul is in a cage.









When something bad happens, what does he do?






Burt, do you think Dad really needs our help?








But there is no man happier than he who launders and wipes the hare.


































- Thank you very much.







Goodbye, darlings.

A hard toothbrush, a big broom is the foundation of my trade.



























































































































- The gun is ready, sir.
































You'll be the happiest person in the world.


























Gellanyer to be useful and important.






































And believe me, my words are not new at all,








































Sir, they say when you don't know what to say, you have to say...











It's a perfectly beautiful word.


















































Yeah, we called his bank first thing.





Sir, he seemed like a decent, calm gentleman.











That's so sweet of you.

























































He wasn't so happy in his life.
Left room for a new partner.




















Enough, thank you very much.






Are you okay?
















- Donna Philumena, she's sick!








































- My dear fiancée!
She'll be more beautiful than Madonna at the wedding.











- Yeah, but she's not good, she doesn't even say.

Alfredo, I've got important things to do here...









Please do whatever you need to do.




































- Donna Philumene really isn't good?










































































































Oh, you have a new car!







Yeah, but your dress and my new car...












It's an honor to speak to you! Bravo! Bravo!








































Look at this beautiful view!

The Marquis de Bassano usually sits in two rows below with a large sea binocular.

And to be truly happy...






"The Beautiful Santa Kiara..."































































- Thank you very much.








Not very pretty, but mine.





Good night, Don Dome and Donna Philumen.







































































I've loved you since I first met you.




































It's a big house, but it's only got two bedrooms, my mom and me. - Is there a kitchen?




I'm gonna bring Rosalia, and I can't do this alone: big house, and my mom needs to be taken care of.





































- Your mother was beautiful!

Yes, a beautiful, moral woman.







Poor Mathilde! Poor Mathilde! Oh, I'm sick!
I'm sick!











































- Yes, darling, I am. Finished?






No, no, it needs to be today, Mimi.













I forgave the first one." Philumena, you need to rest."
































































































Come on, honey, come on!


Oh, my little one!







What a beautiful mother with a baby in her arms!
Beautiful!
































You've done the meanest thing you've ever done.







































I need you, and bastard!





I need something else from you.




































I need them, Home!

They need a name. They'll wear my last name!




Don't swear, I'm not asking you for charity, I don't need it!




















Lucia, then take the new sheets to that room.
































































I needed his last name.













You need to be beautiful tonight.







































































It's a drama, a big drama, because... you're my sons.













"You're big, you're 16 years old, and there's not enough food in the house for everyone."


...in beautiful shoes, under the handle with your fiancées.







Maybe that's when I thought it was beautiful.


























- I'm ready.



















































- Are you okay?




















































Now you're calm. Truth be told, and I'm calm.



...to write something, you need a whole sheet!




It was a big night for me.
Important!









Since then, new houses have grown, skyscrapers.

-...old dramas like ours all over the place.
- You're the one who sees our drama.
There are new houses everywhere, and in every one of them there are old dramas, Home.

You and I used to have a big heart. And that's what it's become.




























The big one isn't.
Doesn't look big.





Your order is ready.






- Do you like beautiful girls?
































I should've told you that he was a student when you decided to help him. Ready to pay!



















































"The beautiful Santa Kiara is my monastery under the moon..."









"Great Santa Kiara..." "How's it going?
"He's a lovely home, and I know everything about it."





























- Mom's tired, she needs a rest.


































































But it doesn't matter anymore.



Tell me, Aima, do you think we're gonna eat this little fish?











Well, it could be a big difference if the slave is king.
























































There's a new caravan!

















There's gonna be a big trade tomorrow, Abdul.
This is gonna be the biggest slave trade in history!



















You have to sell it more to take into account my losses as well.
Abdul, you're the best slave dealer in the whole East... and I'm not gonna teach you that a girl needs to be sold last and for a huge price.



Tomorrow's market must be very profitable, mustn't it, Abdul?



To be honest, I say, put my hand on my heart, did you see a more beautiful, graceful and angelic creature?



















It's too expensive for me.







Only 50 piasters, I say the first one to raise his hand.



















And the first person to raise his hand will take them!








Who's the bigger one?





Now I'm gonna give you a signal, and the first person to raise his hand is gonna take them.
Ready? Come on!
I was the first!

Are you still ready to pay 2,000 piasters?

























I'm sure there's someone among you who's willing to offer a decent price for this lofty creature.






























































































And we have to return everything we've got from me to the last piaster!






































You have to do something important.










Beautiful!























































































































You're a traitor, and one day you're gonna face the punishment you deserve.
You don't have to worry about me, Dykor.





I need time to think.



Look, we need to hurry.

And we need to find a way out of the palace.
















































It's Dykor, our new king!










I'm ready.
We're all ready to attack!
































































































































It's not that bad.



































You said you needed cars.












There was something I needed to clear up.














The first car was to move immediately to pick up the van after loading the money at the scheduled time.



The first car will overtake the van and block the movement.







The old cars are already branded. Luciano will be waiting nearby.




















And from the first shot!
















Anyway, not lately.





























Yeah, as they say, everything goes by, and the good and the bad.









Do you know a new address?

















The less I see him, the better.














Just calm down.
I'm perfectly happy. So tell him.
Yeah, I'm happy.
And I don't need anyone.














































































But I'm the first one to admit that the story is murky.







If we're a snitch, it's bad.
So, tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. on the old ruins as usual.














Are you ready to tell me everything?

























































Massa, you first.
Ready?

































Good to see you.






















































What's wrong with me talking to a woman?

























It's worse than in a pig's house, and the house money fights.



































Words are so bad.






No friends, the whole Soho Square... speaks badly out of his hand.



















It's so easy to teach the kids what to say.










She could work as a saleswoman in a flower shop where it's so important to speak right.





























Lizzie, do you need a butler?













And with me, like a happy dream, a gentle friend would sit in silence.












I gave her the biggest thing a man can give a man - life!



































She could work as a saleswoman in a flower shop where good speech is so important.

She could work as a saleswoman in a flower shop where good speech is so important.






I think it's enough for the first time.








You see, I need to see the professor.






















There's no need to waste an extra valique! Go away, I don't need you.






















I'm even willing to pay him!

I know it's worth a lot of money. And I'm ready to pay!






Sit down, sweetheart, do as they say.


















































Get all the rags off her and burn her! Order everything new from the tailor!



No one here wants your street fee.










I wasn't gonna rub anybody, I just wanted to say I had to take care of the poor girl.







"What?" Who needs me?










No one needs her, and I'm gonna need her.
















We need to think about the consequences, sir.
















I don't want your gold and diamonds!



If you take a girl home for six months to conduct a pedagogical experiment, she needs to explain everything.

If you're obedient and patient, you'll have a beautiful bedroom, a delicious meal, and enough money to take a taxi.

Exactly six months from now, you'll be on a beautiful crew, well-dressed to Buckingham Palace.




















It's so beautiful, it's scary to touch.
































You know, dear Pickering...



















I'm a calm man. And I don't eat anybody's eyelids.







He's gonna listen to you. He's gonna say, "Dear, you're right."

You're a man of great culture, and you can't fight.








































































"I don't need any clothes!"





































I've got a big case for you, you know.


What do you want, Doolittle?
I need my daughter, you know?

I'm glad you still have some fatherly feelings.


























I'm ready to explain!




I'm ready to explain!






So you're here to save her from what you think is worse than death?








It's because I'm starting to like you. If you want my daughter, I won't insist. There's just one thing I need to take care of.





Are you ready to sell your daughter for £50?













I need more than a decent man!
My appetite is as good as mine, but I drink a lot more.




How expensive is five pounds, gentlemen?




































Mrs. Pierce, let Mr. Ezra Wallingford know that if he wants a lecturer, that's Alfred Pi Doolittle, the garbage man, one of England's most original moralists.








As a military man, you understand everything perfectly:











Nothing, I'll wait, dear friend. You're gonna get sick in bed.



































Pickering, prepare for the worst.


















I wonder, how in India, Pickering, do they like to swallow sounds and add new ones?






























































Like for the little ones?











































- I'm glad. Let's see what she can do in public.















Dawn is a great time to study!











I don't care what Mr. Higgins said.























Fine, sweetheart. I agree, sweetheart.












But the audience is just as interesting.



The horses are ready to start.



Ready to roll forward.

































on weather and health. For example, it's beautiful weather. How are you?






It turned out to be a big dress.














Nice to meet you, darling.












The first race was very interesting, Miss Doolittle.





















What happened to her new hat that was supposed to pass me?





It's a new fancy word for stitching someone up means killing someone.
















It's okay, honey.




That's very nice of you.





















- Dinner's ready?





















And I've been walking around town all night.


I don't need any more...
















In the last six weeks, you've been supposed to teach her how to move, talk, talk to the ambassador, the priest.

















I'm calm.



Beautiful.
















What's more beautiful than completely changing a person, putting a completely different speech in his mouth? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,












The first student to know your name!








I'm needed in international gatherings like this.







































Very nice. Miss Dulittle, madam.













Two months ago, I was ready to give up!





I'm, like, happy to bet by losing.






Allow me, friend. Allow me, my dear friend.















































- Good night, Mr. Higgins.
- Good night, Mrs. Pierce. I'm gonna go, too.
Good night.
It was a great day. Good night, Pickering.



















Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Pretty girl's mad!

































But aren't you happy about that?






















































I don't need it.





I'm glad I could get back at you somehow!
















And I've been walking around town all night.


That's all I need, just knowing you're around.



Honey!


It's just the only place I'm happy.









Oh, darling, I... words, words, headaches.









I don't need one!






Don't wait for the first wrinkles.











































Isn't he the one who wrote this guy in America, the nothing old Wallingford, who lost five million to the League of Moral Reforms? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Didn't he tell him that the trashman Alfred Pi Doolittle was the first moralist in England?





When I needed money, I could get it out of anyone!









That's the worst part.








That's what your dear professor did.
It's not, it's not, it's not mine.









I wouldn't advise you, but I'd love to.



Be happy, Dad.







For the last time!




















All she needs is to bring her.













































Last seen her at about three or four o'clock.



Look, honey, I don't like your question!






Higgins, I have an old friend at the Ministry.






























After all, we're the perfect floor!















Good to hear from you.



















I'm sick, and he's in a hurry to help me!








Didn't you tell me how beautiful you were?
















Fine, Henry.


Eliza came to visit me. I'm very happy to see her.






















Do you need me to look for your shoes, to put up with your stunts, and to be your errand?
Who told you I needed you?









Eliza, this isn't about bad and good manners or anything else. Exactly. The point is, I have the same manners for everyone.






















Getting emotional is worse than twisting your hands!















I don't need you to love me like a woman.









































It suddenly became clear to me today that I'm gonna be fine without you.
And the woods and the fields, a cup of tea and me, we're gonna be fine without you.


Let him go down, he'll be happy, but without you, but without you, but without you!
I suggest you, dear friend, don't go to Hartford,













































He drank the last penny, and the creditor knocked on the door.







Beautiful!
Oh, how happy I will be!






























I'm even gonna lock him up!

I know it's worth a lot of money, and I'm ready to make a mess!




































Tell me, do you need another bag?
















































































Until the last dog.


















I caught a big fish.































































The armies need swords, alebards, and armor.









































































Your son is dead, and she needs a man.




























If you just want a woman, take me.











Old hag!










Hachi's a bad man.























































































I've never seen anything truly beautiful... since I was born.




I haven't seen anything so beautiful yet... that I can catch my breath.












And it's called the most beautiful face?



























We didn't do anything wrong.

But bad people are different.


















































































I shouldn't have interfered.













































"Part One.


























Genevieve, honey.


I think that smell is as good as perfume.











What kind of umbrella do you want?





































You're lucky.
























I had to change my shoes.







Do you think I should have put on my makeup?
No, you're pretty enough.












And we'll be very happy.















You can't fall in love with the first person you meet.





Beautiful!













She's the only one he's got. You'll see, he's very handsome.




















Well, you need one.











































I've had a lot of expenses.
We're gonna have to pay our debts, or we're gonna get in a lot of trouble.



I understand you, madam. I'd love to help, but things aren't going well.















There's no need for words.
I'm very happy, though embarrassed.















































Genevieve would love to see you.






I'm so glad we're together.






















You don't have to waste it on tears.
Let's try to be happy.
And from the last few minutes, what we're gonna spend together, we're gonna have the brightest memories.













Do you need anything?

Good night, boy.

















I know everything, darling.











You need to have fun.


You're young, beautiful, smart.



I don't need his advice.







Look at me, darling.































Nothing. I need a break.





If things were going better at the store, I'd be happy.














































We're gonna have to take it. Try to look better.









Maybe you should get some rest.
Really, Genevieve's been a little overworked lately. Very pale.




















- Good night, darling.





I only have one wish to make her happy.



But my excitement is as great as my shyness.



















Of course you don't have to force her.













François is a beautiful name for a boy.






Genevieve, darling, go to the table.


Don't be mean, darling.








In his last letter, Guy wrote how sad he was that he wouldn't see me pregnant.


The woman who's expecting the baby is beautiful.


And in Nuvel de Linha, I saw beautiful creeps.
Admit it, are you happy?
















But you still have to think about it.








I know, Mom, you don't need to praise him.








I want you to be happy and not ruin your life like I messed it up for myself.












'Cause I was willing to die for him.









She agrees. Just don't rush her. She's so weak.


















Take care of me, darling.






But the worst was in the hospital.






















I'm glad you're back.














- You're getting worse.
















- What do you want? - Nothing.
Then go your way.

























You don't need anyone.
I need you, Madeleine.





















- Are you happy?



Are you happy?












I forgot everything, and I want to be happy with you.

We'll get married and be happy.

- It's beautiful. - Really?






























Beautiful tree.











Yeah, it's fine.































- Go to hell. - Thank you very much.





































































































They're gonna give us a nice place to live.







Beautiful place, lots of air.

























































Thank you very much.


What mistress? What do you want from me?



That's very nice of you.
- You're very nice, too, really.











































At what age? - Small.















Madam, there are no snakes here. Nobody's here. I need a place to live.

Madame, I need direction, not snakes. What do you want? I don't know.
































When Mrs. Bat Sheva hit a little girl, she wasn't bitten by a snake?





The government is doing everything, good people are willing to help, me too.





































Thank you very much. Planting is a good thing.





What kind of people are these new returnees?






























































Everyone needs their own sign.











And for these, you have to plant a new forest.



Salah, you're the first person to be fired from an avral job.






































Did I say she was bad?











































You know the parties matter every vote.

































"Who was born first?





And who was the last to be born?




The first thing I want to vote for is a place to live. - Over there.

You'll be the first to settle in.




























- Thank you very much.









































They promised me I'd be the first to move in.














Look how beautiful it is in the synagogue.
- Even prettier.
It's beautiful! It's beautiful!








































The place was so beautiful, all new.








If a new repatriate comes to my workshop...


He's gonna ask me for new shoes, and I'm like, "I'm sorry, but you have to wear old shoes, you're new."























No, I really need someone, even half a man.







Neuman, I need him.

















Beautiful as a picture.





Thank you very much, very kind of you, Mr. Shabati.

I'm always ready to help you.








It's nothing! very big.


























































At an hour of need, I'm ready myself... even today.














Okay, for my master's sake, I'm willing to compromise.
But that's the last price. - All right, how much do you want?












He calls you a nice social occasion.






































I need a thousand lire.

































































You don't need anything.








Thank you very much, please.



















But that's a lot of money, sir. - Maybe the cat's big, but the dog's expensive.
If the lady loses a cat, I'll find him for 30 lire, and the little one and the skinny one for 20 lire.





- Calm down, darling, she'll be with us soon.












It's always like this, black is bad, but if white, it's okay.

























What did you say, honey?








I'm even ready to marry her.
I know you have customs, I'm even willing to pay the ransom.


























I need the money for the house, Goldstein.




























































I'm gonna beat him to the last bullet.











Ask her new assistant.




Zigi, darling, there are basic principles that even you can't break.


















You can't quit when you're in a bad position.











He's a nice guy.









































Dear comrades, there's nothing...







Look, comrade Shabati, we'll talk like old buddies.










Dear Lord, we live in the 20th century.










It's an old horse.




It's okay. - Dear comrade...

- Dear Lord...


It's all over the line, dear Comrade Shabati.









Beautiful songs









Mr. Zigi, I needed the money for the house, but now you don't have to talk too much, but you're actually poorer than social assistance.







Mr. Shabati. - Thank you very much.







Up to the last penny.
- Frida, darling.






























Thank you very much.







I get a new room.


























What do you want with my kids?













"Who was born first?





"Who was the last to be born?









































You're so pale, Signorina. Bad feeling?
























I took a little gift.




















































She's been so calm all day.


















































Counselor, I think this medic is a big idiot.







I told you that medic was a big jackass.
Big jackass? Why?









































Look at the sisters, there's Mathilde, what a beautiful fat girl.



























Signora, do you need something?












- I'm ready.































- You have to wait so long?




An immunological sample can give you an answer in less than half an hour.


























































































Oh, Baron, it's good to see you!



However, the great palace.



This is my last resort.












I sold it last.










Same as Ascalone? You're a lucky father. So many flowers, a whole garland!










Don Vincenzo would love to.






































Be cool.


































I don't want a prostitute wife!






















I mean, one mistake doesn't give rise to another worse, like a marriage that doesn't guarantee enough security, union and love.





















Antonio, you have to play with a lot of enthusiasm.
Fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun. One more last page.











- A little misunderstanding.










































You see, dear cousin, if you had killed him when you discovered this fact, i.e. madness at the offense you were subjected to, the penalty would have been between three and seven years.










I just talked to him. I just gave him some very important news when his nose bleeded, blazed his forehead, and he passed out.



He needs to lay low.








Oh, dear Don Vincenzo! What happiness do I owe your visit?






Dear Don Vincenzo, life is hard today.



Well, who needs it today?


Money-rich buys everything that's expensive. Video, for example. What's my register?








This nuance is very important, it would be difficult for us to do without it.

























That you'd be happy about it?













- I have to go to the bathroom.










































































































Fine, he's denying it.






































































































































That's it, honey! He's gonna get his own! He's gonna get what he needs now!





























- Yes, darling?








"For the crimes listed in Article 530... "Rape, child molestation, everything you've done." ...gives a long period of time, except in the case of..."



Beautiful. But don't tell us the story offered to the judge.

















Will they be happy, thanks to an article on child molestation?













Don Vwinchenko, I think he's ready.







































Good to see you, Major.














































Get it out of your head, we're always happy to see you.



























































Big cloud, it's gonna rain. Fuck them!



Amina's still a little girl, let her go to the left.






















































Tell me, if the authorities were to close this case by taking care of it so nicely... -...you wouldn't mind?











- Are you glad you're getting married?
- She's very happy!



Come on, come on, come on, honey!


































































Anezina, darling.
Get up, darling, you're well.






















- Aniese's almost ready.











- How can I leave if he's so sick?






Big holiday!













THE LAST MAN ON THE LAND






















I need more mirrors.







I need more, much more.























Right now, I need gas.

But I'll take what I need.




























































Do you need to remember that theory is the beginning of a decision?


































- Oh, don't get up, honey.


- You don't have to do this.



Oh, honey, look, if you're not well, please come back to bed.










It's gonna be okay, honey.


















And what does a big scientist have to say today?






































What's important is that if they're vampires, they exist against these microbes.

And until further notice, this radio station will continue to keep you informed of this national disaster.






Anything new?
No, nothing new.













































You're sick, you need a doctor.












We need him now!
I need him!



































































































































We'll have a lot of happy moments together.


































































































You don't have to answer that.




















































Your new society looks charming.




























































































Last man!



















All the wagons are ready.



















































What do you want?









It doesn't matter if it's true or not.




My dear cousin, in a couple of months, you will reach the age of majority, and you will be declared Queen of Sura.












If he really needs a throne,

If that's the case, why would he want a monster?






I should've gotten rid of you 10 years ago then it was easier.






It's a symbol of death that brings us back to plotting against the Great Khan, and also serves as a sign of our new alliance.









































































































That's a great idea.




































- Good night.














Zereteli would do anything to gain absolute power.










The new appearance of the monster is, as I have always feared, the deliberate and cold-blooded provocation of the Churches. To make a mess and chaos on our land.



But we have to prepare for the worst.




























They're old and deaf.









































You were the first to know our secret.































































































































I have some bad news.






They took him to the old hermit who lived in the mountains, hoping that he would cure him.






Tell them we need every man.






















They need to be caught!





































You'll see, my dear.































































































































We need more time to gather the forces of the northern tribes.




Our forces need backup.













































































































































We ask all the inhabitants of Gellen to prepare for this important event.



Careful. I want everything we've planned ready.





All right, it's all set.

















Nice work, Anya.




Today we need to look the best.
























- Serge, come on, we need you.









When I think about her now, I think she was the most beautiful girl in the world.























































I had to go out to Gellen.


























It's a little gray, but it's still beautiful.


You've become even prettier.






- We've had happy days together, haven't we?



























You will, of course, be pleased to know that the death penalty has been abolished.







The old palace...














First thing we're gonna do is rebuild the church. And buy a new bell.








In the heart, my dear doctor, that's where to look for a reason.








But he was old when we first came here.
First time.



But it's almost like... it's like the first time.











I thought I should pretend like I wasn't feeling so good. Otherwise, he's never gonna believe I got him first.
It was important to me that you know you're the first.














So Mathilde didn't make you happy?
































- She must have been beautiful.










































I just wanted to let you know that I'm here if you need me.

- It's all set. I'm ready.



























Our beautiful mistress.





Who doesn't know, dear lady, that you, as a child, brought a bag of potatoes to a starving widow?
And so let me tell you, sweet Carla:
Welcome, dear Carla Zakanassian!
God bless you, dear Carla Zakanassian!











As for my generosity, it's true, once I brought a bag of potatoes to the old widow Bolaz.





But let's leave this lovely lie behind and turn to the harsh truth.
Gellen's in trouble. Gellen needs money.
I have the money, and I'm ready to help Gellen.
I'm ready to give Gellen two million.












































































































Something happens to people when they get too much money.











You've already washed yourself, darling.







- Bad joke.





























I'm sorry about the old politics, but it's "silent dignity."

























You know, I'm almost glad it happened. - Yeah, yeah.










- Hey, honey.















































































- I don't want anyone else.




















We may be old friends, but we'll deal with him.









A big one.










- You got a new blouse?



Nice new dress.
New shoes?













But someday you'll have to pay for them.


























All you have to do is come over here and pick what you want.































New suit?
New table?
A new chair?
The last model, the executive chair.















- Where do you want the new car?

































Dobrick, we're old friends.






Serge, if there's any suspicion or serious threat, no matter who it comes from, the entire Gellen police force will be ready to protect you.


Are those new boots?
















Some of our trusted citizens are very bad shots.























































































Thank you very much.

















- With this little luggage?








That's how you talk about your old friends.































This is your last chance!







This is the last train this week. Go away!



Do you like my new dress?

They'll be bringing in a new window soon.
We need to figure out where to put it.


New type of lighting.













We came to you because this is our last chance to stop this madness.
- You don't need money.
- No, we do.






































My dear teacher, why are you talking about a crime?






























There were conversations that we acted behind the scenes, secretively, so we decided that the trial would be conducted according to the old tradition, in the square, openly.





















All you have to do is pull the trigger.





























Last one.















I need to talk to you, Anya.




















































It's beautiful.



















Are you ready to pass judgment?














































If you get your head cut off, you're gonna die a little hero.

Live among these people who were willing to spill your blood.









I don't need you anymore.













































England will fight to the last French soldier.



























Take more. No, you better keep it.




















I got caught like a simple one. It's 10:00 in the morning. And there's no end to it.



























- Are you ready, Lieutenant?





































































He's been acting weird lately.






























She's a brunette with blue eyes. - Does she have beautiful shoulders? - Yes.
Is your back pretty?



















And there was a small lamp nearby.

I should've ruined it. It was just us in a chubby blanket. And next to that, there's a small lamp.













































- To the table! It's all set.























































































































- He's right. There's a danger of contracting an infection. Too bad they haven't found the vaccine yet.






























If Mademoiselle keeps you company, it's gonna be great.



A small piece of a shell I wanted to send to the corner.








I'm not an alcoholic... but sometimes you have to cheer yourself up.


Shouldn't we do an antistellar pin?


He said he didn't have to.







It'll make us both feel better. Yeah?


















I love it when you're talking nonsense. Enjoy. Maybe for the last time.



I'm gonna be sick without you.





















Flanders. You, the last French fighters, our brothers! We call on you.






We don't need him!
























Not at all. I rented a small farm around here.











You need an interpreter.






And I'm needed to negotiate with the Fritz?




- Do you know the latest news?




























































































Do you need anything, monsieur?



















































Antoinette is very glad you're here.


- So she's less afraid.















We'll be very happy.























I'm willing to argue that I saw the knife.

























































































You know, for us, this evacuation is a big strategic victory.















































Because you need him.
Of course I need him.
Everyone here needs him!








For example, on the first day of the war.




















































































I'll start with the smaller one.






























- If you give me a pussy, I'm ready.




You can say they don't need wedding rings. But I don't do that kind of thing.




























































I feel like I'm gonna see them all the time. Especially the little one with the evil eyes.
















You little whore.





















































You want me to bring her to you. You're gonna do Latin, one or two, and you're ready? - Everything okay?











What do you want from him?












































Why do you need a friend of the Abbot if you're buried like this?

















They need help. There's thousands of wounded.

























When you're a nice girl, don't act like a woman vamp. 'Cause you're gonna get caught, and then it's gonna be late.










A real little puma!















- Cheers. - But they shoot in the dunes, too. - Less than here.










Because I just realized one thing. You need a scalpel to get you out of this house. That's why I'm gonna hurt you a little.












By God, what beautiful horses!
























































You seem to need something.






But remember, if the money isn't equal next time, it's our last deal.




You work, very little, and it's bad.











Tribun Marcus Awl will be the new commander of this garrison.





What's it gonna be, first team, the stand-up?



I need to show you something, Emily.











You did a good job, more than anyone else could.
























































































You can kill me first.

Beautiful words.



























But, the life of my legioners is more important to me.

They would have cut us out, every last person!










































If you were there, you'd show great wisdom.
























You picked a bad place.































































- Too bad for you!

What bad manners!
























How many people do you need?


Not so bad.















In Rome, I never thought about what beautiful things you could find here.
I'm glad you like it.





















You have to forgive me, I'm so happy, but who else can I tell?














Very, very bad?

















Aristia is the capital, but also the most important port.




































But I'm ready, more than ready, to give you free help, believe me.
















But it's a bad neighborhood full of bastards ready to spy on a piece of bread.















My duty was even greater.














































































What a bad manners!

For example, this beautiful green, if you're interested...
























If you want sausage, I've got a few kinds of excellent quality.























I need to see them right now.














































































































Maybe you won't believe it, but as soon as the first one started the spear, I grabbed the spear before he could...











Don't you remember that beautiful brunette in the arena yesterday?




















Mommy mya, it's gonna be bad.




























Which one of you saw him first?
















































































































That's the confession of one of your accomplices, the one you killed last.
The prosecutor will read it with great interest.








Selim, I need help.










































I'm offering you one last chance at salvation and freedom!










Those who come up here will get kicked and punched in a lot of numbers!























Good night!



































































Ready?























I got a new job-- washing cars in the house where he lives.
I can see how this little beauty is waiting for action.


















I mean, that's the last thing I said, Sal.








Baby... with your education, you can come up with something better than "Dear John..."



I don't need any books to show me the way up.



No, Dad, it's okay.
No, it's okay, Dad.

You're happy to convince her that she's "too much for a Boy like El Salvador Ross," huh?














- Shows a greater commitment to self-improvement.













































































You have a big surprise in history.






Are you the new owner?










































Would it make a big difference if you were 19 or 20?
Now that you've done this, I think 20 is not such a bad age.























You're obviously doing very well for that, and I'm glad.













Even worse than I used to be.







Leah needs someone nice and... hey, Dad.
Hello, darling.


Your father and I, we had a nice little conversation.






I'm glad.





















What kind of guy is it for you, Leah?








































Don't flatter yourself so much, my dear.





Good night, Dad.
Good night, darling.
I'm glad you came.




You have something I want to buy. And I'm willing to offer you $100,000 for that.











Honey, can you give us a few minutes?











































































I'm afraid we need your help.









































































What I'm not gonna stand for is false accusations. I need direct and convincing evidence.






















































You must be able to infiltrate the most important of them.


























He still needs to be earned. I trust you, but only because I know you.































































To start with, we have to go straight, then turn right all the time.



















In case we do, we're gonna have to make legs, my dear boy.
Glad you think so, Doctor.









Glad you're both here.






No. 2, you can remove part of the ammo, a new batch has arrived.


































I'm prepared to support my arguments by force, if necessary!



































I'm glad the fight's over.




















































I don't know, honey, I think my ship is a useless thing.












So you think I'm a stupid old fool?












You'll be executed on the guillotine as soon as she's ready.

































But there was one important difference.












































































All you need is two dozen drills and a group of people. And then maybe... maybe we can get out.







You're gonna make this place a bad reputation!







This must be the last one.







We have to be ready for this.






The day is coming when his information will be very important.








He has important information.




















































































































































































































You have to understand that in order to succeed, I had to gain some power.





































Any information you have, it's urgent.



































If I can get the results of the meeting, I'll be ready to go back to England, and I can help you.



















If we're seen, we might get in the way, or worse.
































Now we're ready to meet.








Do you need anything, citizen?










Well, I'm really glad you could make it, General.













This isn't the first time.















I believe that successful governance requires the support of people with power.





A useful pillar for the new government.




I'm glad you appreciate the position.



When do you need my decision?






I'll call you to Paris as soon as the time is right.
I have to be ready to accept the leadership.






















We need a strong government, but not a military dictatorship.


Oh, save your breath, my dear.
Do as you see fit. I'm going after Susan.



































We have to break it.





































But I'm glad you came.







































So, as long as we're looking for a new jailer, you can hold this position temporarily.







More prisoners will be brought in tomorrow, Robespierre's friends, so everything must be ready, including the cameras.












































It's really an honor.


















































Well, I can believe you, dear Barbara, Napoleon would never believe you.






Our lives matter? At least for us.


Well, unlike the old saying, our fate is in the stars. So let's go look for her.












































































- What do you want in the tomb?
- What do you want from me?















Ship, poison, and the old servant of Yetaxa.














I need blueprints.















































Dear Kameka, it's good to see you again.























Dear Doctor, I accept it with all my heart.























He's civilized, he's willing to listen to advice.













- What do you want?












Then I'm asking you for a little favor.


- Drink first.


















Have a nice day, darling.
It's the happiest day of my life.


Very simple, my dear.































The first is known as the Four Tigers, the second is the Air Sun, the third is the Sun of Fire and Rain, the fourth is known as the Sun of Fire and Rain.




















In the last few days of his life, all his wishes must be fulfilled.















Honey, I'm glad to see you alone.
















I'm with you, darling.































































Susan will be punished first before the sacrifice.






















































































Your little trick put our lives in danger.






















































































If one of the little parts of the equipment isn't working, the little illuminant light bulb, tell me exactly where the damage is.
















































































But the watch is more important.






















































































I told you it would take the power of an entire solar system to attract energy away from my ship.
We are at the beginning, at the beginning of the creation of a new solar system.


Within a minute, small clots of matter are created.


The new birth, the sun and these planets!


























Well, you just have to push down, and...
































See, there's a little compound inside and it's stuck there.






As soon as I take it off, the little connection inside will disconnect the switch here and turn off the light.





You know, my dear child, I think your old grandfather hasn't gone crazy much.

































































Always was too big for me.
































And that's my last word.



It's bad.













They need metal to move.












I've dug up all the spare parts, and we really need some mercury.


















Thank you, darling.





They're strong and they have one big advantage over the Daleks.

They have one big minus.







My dear, there's no time for morality.


My dear, I was hoping you wouldn't complicate things.




















- We need action, not words.




"Thank you very much.





















It was once a beautiful world full of ideas, art and inventions.

































It was the first section where Talov's anti-radiation drugs were taken.











We need radiation to survive.






















Well, we have to wait till morning.

















Isn't that a beautiful cover on the back of town?








But if we need radiation, we'll never rebuild the world outside.
We don't need to adjust to the surrounding environment.

I need to ask you something.













If no one agrees with me, then let me go with these people, and I'll help you choose a new chief.

























It's a beautiful natural barrier.













Quality's bad.










Radiation is still important.

I need a complete review of our nuclear stockpiles.

























I think I need to figure out a place to hide for the night.









I'm so glad I ran out of mountains.




- I think we all need a break.


























































































Now... the things we need to take out are the radio and the body of the tower.












The neutron bomb report is ready.








We need to find another way to spread radiation.

































- No, no, you need him more than I do.



































There's a big cave and a lot of tunnels coming from it.




It must have been a happy fall.
Watchers detected a lot of activity by the Tals.

No, it's a bad reception.

- We need to raise the alarm.




- Doesn't matter.


- I know it's risky, but we don't need to stay here.






























- But you don't need me at all.


























































Because, as we know, the Daleks need a ray to attack them, paralyze them, kill them!































Dear child, don't you understand what I've done?






Not good for a quiet walk, huh?




































You should have jumped first.























We need her, like you or the Italians need air.



































Bad throw, my mistake.








I'm ready.




I'm gonna use it for everyone, but it's gonna be Marco Polo's water burps first. Tomorrow, the caravan will enter Gobi's desert.



But, worse still, the old doctor is always babbling, angry and condemning my actions.












Yeah, I bought chess in Mamuz on my first trip to Katey. They're with me now.






























I think we should say good night anyway.


Good night.




Good night.
Good night, Susan.






Oh, what a beautiful night!


She looks like a big silver sea.






At night in the desert, it's beautiful.

























Is it gonna be bad?
It's bad enough.






























































































































He's an important man.








































The nearest little oasis is at least a week away north of here.






















On the first day, we walked 20 miles.





The worst journey in the sun is almost behind us.
































Marco. Without water, the Doctor can't take the last 24 hours.



























































Yeah... all we need to do right now is find out how to open it.





























































How much time do you need?

But it's beautiful Doctor!



Well, I'd be happy to leave the tablecloth here.












For me, this journey, despite all the dangers, is the happiest time in this part of life to Tun Juan.


















In the last three days, I've been heading north toward the small town of Sinju, which is conveniently positioned in front of the Great Wall.





























Believe me, I need a lot more to doubt Tegan.










Yeah... how do you kill an old magician?

























Susan has a bad influence.






He's a very important man.






The old magician is back in his... uh... caravan.







Are you ready for this?













You need more than the key to my ship.






















I know the odds are against us, but at least we have to try.

The ship's waiting on the street with a set-up.



Oh, my dear Susan, if you...





















I think by then, I'm gonna get this gentleman to condition so he's gonna be happy to let us go.


















There's nothing more important than human life.




















- That's cute! Why don't I have moments like this in my life?





- You don't need a passport.

I might need it. See, I'm ready for anything.







- More like sweet. - On the 21st century slang, "slender" is good or bad?
- Bad. But bad means good, doesn't it?
















The gas station's gonna take another 24 hours, so we need to kill time.

- Probably wondering what four people in a small wooden box can do.









If someone was arrested, you could lock him up inside until help arrived. It's like a little prison cell.


















And "an important population point" is usually not friendly.



















It was raining, it was a bad look, my car just couldn't stop.












I think we need to talk in private.

We need to go to the ladies' room.





- Go on. - I'm not strong in nuclear physics, but from what I understand, Cleaver said that this project is gonna make a noise, it's gonna be worse than Chernobyl.




Apparently, yes, but a thousand times worse.





























I once had a big family.




















- I knew I had to turn left!








According to reports, our target is the last surviving member of the Slitheen family, a criminal group from the planet Ruxakoricophallapatorius, camouflaged under a human skin suit.























- No, I'm just an old friend. I was just passing by. I thought I'd surprise you.






She'd love to talk, but...
































































Does it matter?



























I'm even glad I got beat.

Don't worship me, I'll make a bad god.









It's not compatible, but we can work on it for 12 hours, it'll be ready by morning.

















I don't really need a passport.












I bet you always leave first, Doctor.
















Am I supposed to have one last wish?




Is that what you want, one last supper?

























Look, that's where I lived when Margaret was in a nice little apartment.





























That's sweet.


She's cute.


Good for you, she's cute.












The Slitheen family is very large, we're much larger, all scattered in the light.

















- Doesn't matter. There's a bar with a Spanish name...







We were fine, we were happy, and then you smacked me goodbye and ran off with him, and I felt like nothing, Rosa!
















You only let go of one, nothing new.

That's how you live with yourself, kill millions, because sometimes, at your own whim, if the wind blows to the right side, you show kindness.








But I need something, a promise that when you get home, you'll come back to me.


















































It's not just an old power source.









Beautiful...




















- Or she'll get worse.










- Don't.
He deserves more.









- We'll come up with a new look for you.
- What's wrong with what I'm wearing?


- I need to find the Doctor! He's around, he's always around!











What do you want?

- What do you want?



























The Daleks need these drugs, too, and they won't let us go until I bring them.






Are you sure the Daleks need medicine for your friends and not for themselves?





























































Alidon said the Tals would starve until they found a new supply of food.
Look... after the war, the Tals survived growing food on small plots of land.
































- It's a bad road.









































































- Last word?





















Ready, Doctor?















I need an answer.








































Because they need him.




























Their eyes move like a big lens of a camera.













If you're right, Doctor, that the Daleks feed on the floor, that's a great way to get them out of service.

























"They hope they can work with us to build a new safe world,

























I'm ready.















































































































Are you ready?
Yeah, I'm ready.



















Food for prisoners isn't that important!

I've already got ready, sir.









But I'll make sure your name is mentioned in the right place.











We were right to come here. Are you ready?



























Mr. Robespierre is doing a great job chasing traitors?









There's no better choice of clothes in all of Paris.
Yeah, I was thinking about something new in that direction.














































It's not exactly a palace, but we're happy to welcome you.








The less my friends and I know, the less we can confess under torture.
































































Jules, this isn't the first time.








So this isn't the first time you've risked your lives like this?























Thank you, good night.
Good night, Susan.



It's good to see you.








Well, we think you need to know.






It's a pleasure to meet you.

























Robespierre? Uh, I don't think you need to bother the First Deputy.










Sure. I'm glad we understand each other.



It's an honor to help you.




























I fought him, I was willing to give my life to stop him.


























That's what I'm gonna do. You know, I have execution lists for the First Deputy if you'd like to discuss your province.







Oh, is that important?




































































Polo, if you believe this, you're gonna be a bigger fool than I thought.




We have to use something more than that.

We need more than these swords.












Tell the others that if there's no signal, in the first light of the moon, we attack.












Marco, I'd like to explain to you how important TARDIS is to us.
And I'd like to explain to you, Ian, how important it is to me.























































What does he want?







You need to carefully pick the right moment.


















That's why we're wearing bells, sir. We're on our way, and as soon as we get there, the horses are ready for us, for the next three miles.




Tell me, how many men can travel such long distances without a break?




























































There's a little girl over there, and there's a wedding veil.

















Are you ready to pay a good price?







The first part, my lord.






























































They would've seen that his death wasn't necessary.






Sorry, honey.















I'll find out more about the tomb.


- You're an old brute.































That's all I need.












Yetaxa's servant won only with his thumb.


He won with his thumb.



























You taught me that a small defeat could be an escape from shame.































Oh, darling, how kind of you.



























- Old servant of Yetaxa.


































Are you Etaxa's old servant?
























































































I need to make sure that one warrior wins today.
























































































We need to make sure no one drinks anything other than crystal water.



Fine, fine.




After the first symptoms, no one lasted more than three days.


I have the necessary chemicals and equipment on the ship.











































































































































These creatures beat us with smiles and sweet words;


















We need to separate the poison and prescribe the cure.

Fine, fine. Although we've already checked the water.
Well, then we'll do a new test.















Remember, I need samples from all external sources.





































This so-called antidote needs to be stopped.
















Excellent. I guess it's time to make a big shipment of medicine.






Be strong, darling, be strong.



Yeah, it's a beautiful cure.












Stay with him, he's getting better, I think you'll have a beautiful future.

Where are you going, Doctor? I need to find the first... elder... or better than a scientist.



Remember that the first and second elders know well only those who are in power.


















































































































































Look, we've got to pick up the water!




























And then, when I was ready to go to you, I saw a caravan moving in here.









We have to leave this place as soon as possible. Marco, we all need a break, and the Doctor is still very weak.

























You may be back in your caravan again, but before you leave in the morning, you have to close it and give me the key.






































You sneaky old fox!













Ping-Cho, are you ready?
I'm ready, Susan. Well, okay.
Ladies and Gentlemen, listen carefully to my fairy tale of Allah the Edin the old mountain,


























































It belongs to the old magician who's accompanying us.























Do you need my help?




































































































































































































- We've been looking everywhere for you! It doesn't matter.
I'm just glad we're back together.
Yes, as do I, dear child.
Still, we have a few important things to do.




- I need someone to protect me.


































































Well, the guard entered the door first.











































So he decides to pretend that he was the first to react to the signal.







My dear child, it's only in theory.
















Well, maybe there's something he thinks he didn't pay too much attention to.









- So they're willing to do a lot to get him back.



































Don't say another word.





Listen carefully. And I'll tell you... what to do...


Participants in nribunal, the evidence is already more than enough to convict this man, but it is important to add that the psychometric examination is established that this pin was in the prisoner's right hand.












I now give the floor to my first witness. Thank you...













There, in the front row.








Yes, my lord, and... we came back to find the last one.







- Now, first of all...




Experts can identify the object by the characteristics of the person with whom he last spoke.


It doesn't matter.













Despite the dramatic nature of recent events, little has changed.

His last words before he died, 'they made me do it.'







I ask the Tribunal &apos; s condescendence and allow time to find new evidence.




























We need to move on!
















Your friend needs that kind of help, too.















No, no, no, don't get your hands close to the fire, we need to restore circulation gradually.











No sooner the wolves would eat you first.


















































































































































We need him unharmed.


It doesn't matter.















































































































































































You first.











































I'm glad you're here!









I must say, it's not a bad cozy place you've got.












































































Good night.
- Good night.
- Good night.



























I think it could have been worse.

Thank you very much.






















It's beautiful, look!























- It's just an old dirty mug!


























































Yeah, well, obviously, we're all glad she's gonna be okay, so if there's nothing else we can do for her right now, I suggest we take a look at the lab.

I think there's a lot of potential here.















That's the most important thing to me. That's mine.























As for the child, she needs to be trained quickly.















































































Our plan was to go forward looking for four keys, and I'm here for the first one.



























I hope it's not as bad as it is here.





- Well, I'm ready.


- Thank you, my dears, now let's go!




















Ready?



There's a big iron door, it's guarded by the Dalek.












































That's not good. There's something jammed in here.
It only makes it worse.





- We need to get you in the elevator.















































We need to find a way out of this room.



























Bad.

We need to get down there somehow.
- Yes, but how, my dear?
























Ready?














Look, we have to find a new source of food.

















































We need your help and in return we'll make the soil alive again, grow grain crops, build houses.



















































Still, I think we all need to be on a check.


















The burn's not that bad.


























































Or has this faith become real because they don't have to prove it?























- Glad to hear it.



Tals are such nice people.
And the Dalek is not, which is more important, my child.













































































If that's what it takes.




We thought maybe you knew someone your husband's been seeing a lot lately.






























Be ready.















































I have to find new evidence and reopen the case.






























































He founded skepticism, a fine quality in your work.














All we need is a strap on your wrist that you took from Chesterton.





























- Where's the last key?




























- Where's the last key?









If you don't admit where the last key is, I'll order my creatures to kill her.


What are you doing, my dear boy?












My dear Chesterton, sometimes...




























And you will come with me... with me, my dear.






































But the key is the last key, you have it?












I want them here when the last key is inserted and the machine gives me absolute power!








So when Yartec gets his last key, his power will be absolute.





















My dear boy!





















But it doesn't matter anymore.







I'm happy to be alone with you at this moment, Sabeta.













































































































We need a block.




I'll tell you how good it is to see you later.













Ready?

























- I need someone to come with me.







































I had a vision, Tonila, a big room with three walls.











































Here you are, darling, the work is almost done.


- Excuse me, darling.




We're doomed people, darling, nothing can save us.



- I lost everything I cared about.


- Your tragedy is bigger than mine.











And you, Kameka, be happy.








Yeah... for the last time.









Are you ready to join?





































Oh, dear Susan!






























































The first one to open his mouth...














Dear Esmeralda, you are like a ray of light in our dark kingdom...




That's great, that's great, that's great! Let me thank you in a friendly way.

Men are always willing to smash each other's noses for me. I think I'll leave you gentlemen, your conversations are not for my ears.


















What a mistake! Is that the sheriff? Okay, I'm glad you're gonna give me your land, ha-ha...




I'll have her and this little house. And even... green meadows.




































He wants to make a small farm. Poor bastard, he's gonna kill himself.


















And it could all belong to us, darling...









































I rode a 1381 mile horse, but I have to move on.
You're not going anywhere, you need to rest, and you need vitamins, and in the meantime, you're gonna tell me who you are and where you come from.








Look how you took him out! With a shooter like that, I'd be more comfortable at a time like this.





I'm gonna go inside, get what I need, and you, Johnny, don't go too far. I don't think it's a good idea to walk around here without a gun.





















When you're angry, you're even more beautiful.







I need him alive, I want to know where he found this creep. Who knows, maybe there's still a lot of them.







I knew that right away, but before you ask me, I'm gonna talk about my little physical disability.



































- That's it! Signor is ready.

- You're worse.


















There are people who are willing to pay for that kind of sand.
















Let the beautiful Esmeralda help us.


Cowboy Johnny, it's really you! I need to tell you something important.










Just three small steps, okay, Johnny, I'll come to you myself. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Got it, now tell me about the mine.


But there's a mine where you got that beautiful big bastard hanging around your neck that was so shamelessly stolen from you.



- Oh, my God, I'm so ashamed! My reputation! Look, Johnny, how beautiful I am...


Johnny, let's go to the balcony. It's so awful nice of you to come to my place today. What are you saying?








I picked you up when you fell, I cured you, fed you, and you forgot the first time.




I think Clementine just fell in love. She treats him so badly...














I killed him like the last dog...
















Johnny, it's so good to see you again!



Those two are pretty good at arming themselves. We have to be ready for anything.





























































Is she as beautiful as the picture?
Yeah, she's even prettier than the picture.




















































Like the first time, you didn't hear me come in.

























I remember our first day yesterday.








































We need to go immediately and apologize to her.








































Let's see how we like the new place.


























There's no need for an explanation.





Is that your last word?












I'm gonna say it again for the last time.














Stop, please. I need to get out.







You're both young, beautiful and healthy.
It is said that more beautiful children are born to those who truly love them.







As a father, I just want my daughter to be happy.








Nice romantic adventure.




































But bad weather was rarely an obstacle to my walks.

































































































I don't have to stick my nose in old books to find out if there are ghosts or not.



- I'm an old soldier.




























Have you heard of an old man, a small height and a sinister appearance who claims to be a former army captain?
































He trusted her because she was his old love.



















It can't be worse to die from a sword than to starve to death.






















































I really liked our first conversation.









One day, I accidentally committed a big crime.





















It's always good luck to be friends with someone.





But I won't give up the first gift I've had since my troubles.
















But I wouldn't go in again and for a thousand times more.




































- Yeah, he's really bad.







My shitty old bones hurt so much.












Even if I'm sick, I still need money.




















































First time three months ago.

































It's an old, old trick, and this number won't work with me.


I have to finish the bathroom and I'll be ready in five minutes.







































and explain a lot of things that seem to have nothing to do with equations.







What's important is what's behind them, their overall structure.













































They're making great progress in artillery.

Anyway, this isn't my first duel.



































You're not the first one, Galois.







This fever of a conquering mind that admires itself for giving birth to a new field of science.
- I'm ready, sir.





After the first shot, the other side has a minute to return the shot.



















It took 14 years for Galoua's first edition to appear in the magazine Liouville.











































































































































To hurt the little ones?
For the last time!














It's not your business, it's your business.




































































I need a device.

Mr. Rolling, I need the money.






























But now it's important to find out something else.
Do you give us the right to do this alone, and one beautiful morning bring in the machine and the blueprints?
















That's what I need.







I need to cover my tracks.

I need a doppelganger.

























Well, you can tell Garin that I'm willing to offer him $50,000 for the patent of his invention.
Your proposal needs to be understood that way.










































Here, Lenoir, darling...






To own the world, my dear.

















































Easy, don't yell.

























I'm a woman, darling.





































When you say open, you have to open.



























I need your money.
















But Garina needs me.







































































































I promise to kill you at the earliest opportunity, Garin.






So, Rolling with his billions, I'm gonna need it for the rest of the time.




What do you want?

































































































Why do you need my life, I don't understand.
























I need you as a hostage.






























































We just need to get through a boiling olive.





























Schelge trusts the secret of a big hyperboloid.


- Nice job.

































You're gonna ask... why do I need you, Rolling, if I have an inexhaustible supply of gold under my feet?












We need to prepare the views of your colleagues there on the continent.










The big cities are gonna die.






There's only one thing I need to do.
As long as Garina's not on the island, we need to get a big hyperboloid.



We need to climb the big hyperboloid tower down the stairs and lower the elevator.
I'm ready. Okay.

Big hyperboloid.



Someone's climbing a big hyperboloid tower.


Someone's sitting on the big hyperboloid tower.



The big hyperboloid has been captured.



You know, it's good to see you.
It's broken, no matter what, we're gonna make a new mess.


It is necessary to acquire a large hyperboloid and a mine.


























But if the zone is large,































































































- What did he want?
Stay away from the door, I need to see you.





















But only when we're ready to leave.












Beautiful.




















We need to cover our tracks.













































It's good to see you here.












- Is that the new girl?



















Fine, Frederick!
Welcome to Winslip knot, where all the lines come together and old friends meet.


Welcome aboard, Mr. Steed!











I'm so glad we're going in the same car!








It's an honor to come with you, Mr. Steed.









Are you willing to sacrifice 10,000 guineas? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,





They opened up the wild West, different new territories, and made me rich.

- Nice trip.
- It's good to try.










Beautiful.















Johnson and Miss Terwell are beautiful people.




They're ready to work.






















They have surgery tonight, so you won't be needed.













Good night, Mrs. Peel.











You just have to wait.























































It should be pretty big.

For assembly, you need a room that doesn't have dust at all.



Big.



Miller, this is the last one.
And the job is ready.









Beautiful.


















































Sir Horace, we need to destroy the control station.






































Beautiful day!




































Then we sent another agent to look for the first one.








I hope you don't need a brand filler with marzipan.


















- Beautiful!









Good evening and welcome to Fun Old Gremlin!























Yeah, it was a great day when the 33rd squadron was here.











They're not as bad as they seem to be suspicious of strangers, but generally good guys.














I need a room, too.











But I didn't ask them for a new teacher.







If our committee is so generous, we should take advantage of it.





- Good night.
- Good night, old man.











Maybe this isn't the last revelation.

If you had warned me, I'd have taken my beautiful pot.















I need to send a letter.


Good night.

The dogs were in the woods, they clearly needed something, or someone.






We need an axe.










Small.














But we're not ready to accept the next group.













- To make a new gymnasium.


That's a great idea.

We need to be careful.



























































We need to take a look at the airfield.



















I'm a bad assistant here, I've been here a while.










Our choir really needs a woman with a contralto.






Here's the story of the last 20 years of the parish.






























- I have an important and urgent matter.














You were just pretending to be a new teacher, weren't you?



'Cause I know how important it is to be able to pretend.



































- On a diet... oats I try less...

























Replace the old population with a new population.






























Now, relax and have dinner in a cozy little hotel where the wine is strong and the steak is this thick!


They're here, my dear. ( Stephen sits and Vicky cuts his hair)
































My dear young man, this is not a walk!






From our experience, there's always a need to be careful.
Well, I'm willing to take my chances.

So we're ready?







That's right, my dear, whatever it is.
















It takes a little to scare you.
Is that a cute little thing?



























No, no, my dear, not this time, but... it's so quiet here.











No, but this thing in the front, I think it looks like a loudspeaker.

















































































- He's very old, isn't he?






















Yes, dear madam, the girl is telling the truth.






I should have listened to the report first.









Oh, is it that bad?


You don't have to exaggerate.





Yeah, it's the last moments of her life.





























as long as it takes.


























This planet is about to explode, Rillam managed to repair his ship on time, and they can escape...


















































I'd feel better if one of you stayed here.

But, my dear...!


































So we gotta get out of here!


They need our help with the Rills!

Okay, but we gotta get out of here somehow!
You've got to get out of here right now!



Tomorrow is the last day this planet will see.










- It's a beautiful thing, but it's stubborn.
The lock is malfunctioning and you need a strong fire to make it flexible.
Perhaps I should go with the masters and leave my knights at home.














I left the De Lathabel brothers with horses, sir, and everything is ready to return to Jaffa if Your Majesty wishes to leave.



















































He'll be happy to get it back.

- We need help finding Barbara.










As I said before, we need King Richard's help.





















- The sultan's big camp.




































- The sultan of Egypt would be pleased.

















He'll be happy to see the woman he admired for so long.






Beautiful clothes.


Beautiful clothes.


The most beautiful clothes in Jaffa.


Beautiful clothes.

Beautiful atlases.
The most beautiful clothes in Jaffa!









- You have very beautiful tissue.
- The most beautiful on the coast, my lord!











I want more than you last paid.













- And you'll get less.









My beautiful clothes!















For being here when you needed it most.




















Less than less!
































































You have to serve my purpose, otherwise you don't need to.













One of your little things will remain, Sire.



And now I recognize my brother John, thirsty for power, drinking big outlines of this, even though it's not him to take.





































Yeah, we need a special cure.


Oh, we're slowing down, my dear.





















But we have to get to Earth first, or the whole solar system will collapse!






































Maybe one day you can.


Now, if I had the latest Flip T-4...











The last 25 years must have proved that they were the dawn of the eternal world that would spread to the entire universe.
Let us go forward together to protect the knowledge that life is the cornerstone of a greater understanding not only of the past or the present, but also of the future.




Yeah, it's nice to hear his speech again.




















































Okay, I'm ready for you!


FIRST DALEK:






I don't know, my dear, but I have to try.















































You're right. The old man sent me.





Yeah, but we need to close the doors first.
The old man said you knew how.



He looks small outside.





I explained it to the old man, uh...






The old man said it wasn't an ordinary ship... and he was right.




This is the first big mistake, isn't it?









All set?




Oh, it's my little invention-- a magnetic chair.











But don't be upset. He's safe... he's... our guest... he's not at all able to move until I switch the little ginger.


















































Our new ally is coming!


It's an honor to be here.















































































And I'm... like an old beggar.





Nice to meet you.







































































When he's little.







Marines, we need your help.
















































Don't you want to... don't you want to see your wife again? I'm very happy to see her come back.

It's not the first time she let herself be... kidnapped.












I haven't been a coward lately.





























more important news.










He came to me out of nowhere in the shape of a little old man.

It's a little old Zeus.















When we have such an important guest.










































































































































































































Oh, my dear!
I'm so glad you're feeling better.






















Oh, that doesn't have to mean anything, my dear Barbara.



Yes, yes, my dear, of course. Yeah, that's stupid of me, yeah. Leverage number four.







Yes, my dear, it doesn't smell.







Okay, that's new, isn't it?
He's usually the first to get ready, and he's the first to take a look at it.
Oh, we're probably gonna have to see the Doctor on the new side.

You know this is the first time he's slept during the landing.







Look, Ian, all the old associations are still in the ship.






















































And my handwriting is getting worse and worse.













Oh, my dear comrade.







- Easy, easy.


























- With a big head? Like a wrench? - Yes.



The last time I was here, if I remember correctly, they already improved this thing.


Are you okay? Ready?
Yeah, yeah, I'm not that bad.

Don't sit here, my dear boy, get up, get up.























They're very beautiful.
































































New leader, different environment.
No, no, no, my dear Chesterton, no.

My dear boy, when I was here before, the number of people causing trouble on this planet was only 100.




Okay, are you ready to continue? Me?



Uh, it could be worse.
































































What we need is a good lead.


































My boy, there's a very big difference between resting and doing nothing.






Answer, my dear, the pipelines.



























Oh, yeah, in one small village miles from Rome.



You just have to wait and watch.

It's a very small place, Church.
I don't think we're gonna find what we need here.
This is our last chance before Rome.









You can make a beautiful dress out of it, don't you think, Barbara? - Mmm.















































You've done a lot of good.



It's a lovely feast, my dear.







Oh, that's fabulous, my dear, just amazing.





































We don't have to do anything living here, believe me.
















But, my dear, you just rejected my invitation.
















Yes, of course, my dear, let's go. Let's pack up, okay?

Of course, this will be your first study.






































And that's not so bad.






































What do you want?












- Just a boring old statue.

Wait there, darling.





Yes, my dear, yes, but that's not the answer.





Okay, there's nothing we can do for him now, my dear. Nothing at all...





















I think it's a great luck that I found you myself, unharmed.


When you said that you planned to walk your way playing your lyre for people, it generated great interest in the Court.











So if you're ready, let's go to Assisium, then my men will accompany you to the rest of the way.


I must be very important.




But, Doctor, you don't even know your name! Yeah, really, darling.

Maximus Pettullian, are you ready?








































































Sweetheart, we're done with this.











You know, it's so simple: time and relativity, my dear!



















No, I don't think so, my dear, no.






I'm afraid I can't tell you anything when I'm here, my dear.






Oh, thank you, darling.






Doctor, you didn't have to change.




















And I'm sure no one's gonna mind that there are some questions that need to be answered.























Yeah, I think we should start looking for information and... since there's an element of danger in the unknown, I suggest we stick together.





























My dear Barbara, if you've seen anything or anyone, you probably don't have to talk about it in riddles?

























Except there's no little man here who makes sure nobody touches anything.





You have objects on earth that are of historical interest, so... what's worse than a museum in space, hmm?














































At least thank you for that.






























































It's the biggest museum I've ever seen.













Yeah, I agree, it's a big deal.






















Hmm. We need to hang out sometimes, hmm?





Yes, it is, my dear.







Well, my dear, I think, since we're in this, uh, we can.












All we have to do is wait... until we arrive!

You see, darling, before they put us in these cells, we must have landed here on the Tardis.






















And then we'll be in great danger.

Now you see what you have to do to stop them from making the artifacts out of us!






Yes, my dear... and we're here!


























Yes, my dear, yes.
I'm sure I can neutralize that power with more power, yes.























































Of course, my dear.









Are you ready, my boy?
- Yeah, we're ready.









































































































































































It's old, it's very old.









































We almost got the Coal Hill school teacher's solution, instead of his old, shrivelled, pathetic tie.


























































- Have a good trip, Monsieur Antoine.
































I don't know if you know this, but my car had a little accident yesterday...











































- Are you happy?






Wow, that's too much. I consume less than Cadillac.





Yeah, yeah, I agree. It's a beautiful guide to Rome Walk.
Yes. " A walk through Rome "Stendal," it's a beautiful guide.


Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, we got to go, let's go... oh, yeah, Caravella's a lovely plane.











This Cadillac we've been preparing for months, you've decided to change things at the last minute. - They chose him without agreeing with us!







But listen to me, damn it! We need a simple, unsuspecting man!







I invited him at the last minute because he's honest.

































































































No, no. No new, old...
I know it's not new.








Bravo, great. Nice work.
































































































I've had enough Sicily and Sicily! I'm warning you, I'll marry the first person I meet.



Do you need so many weapons against me?
























































































































































































- I was happy.




















Shame creates bad thoughts.
- Do you have any bad thoughts?





















Sweet Antoine, we passed the big hotels in Siena and Florence, and you didn't even look at them.









- Good night.












































I don't think so, my dear.













Old friend, diabetic, I helped him with sugar.












































That's nice. You go, Ursula, he'll take us both off.

Let's go upstairs, it's prettier.




- Look how great it is. - Yeah, it's beautiful.

Well, isn't it beautiful here?










That's nice... but what a blow.

















Why? To stop this thief from stealing your beautiful car.



Let's not have such a beautiful car, but it's calm.




Monsieur, there's always a big case to follow.


Beirut has decided to ship the largest drug shipment in history to the United States, and that's not all!























































It's good to see you.














- Are you curious, you old bastard?






























































Where and everything, in the old Rolls-Royce.




















You bastard, what do you want?


















You need me, son?









The smallest, so...

And give him that thing back, he'll be happy.





















































































- Is it true that the castle is very big?
- What? I'm saying, the lock on the front door... isn't it that big?



































What do you need?


I'm ready, but what happens if Fiori comes?













You made a big mistake!































































































Really, it's beautiful...





























































You just want to get yourself a bigger piece of cake!



















I didn't do anything wrong!










No, sir, I didn't do anything wrong.




























































































































































What do you want? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, What do you want from me?








... that caused the death of the latter, in the working quarter, at the residence of Mrs. Herminda Moldonado, the widow of Mrs. Subiria was prepared this document confirming that her late husband had not fallen victim to the assassination attempt and that the wounds that caused the death were the result of the fall of June 24 of this year.





















































Tell him he's ready...



He's beautiful...
He's really beautiful!











































I didn't do anything wrong, sir!









Don't you realize you're acting like a fool? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,







Look at us. The strength of a beautiful life that drove the world crazy.



It's not really bad.












He needs to be cooled down by 7:00 P.M.













It's an exciting adventure, but I'll be glad when it's over, something else.




Mr. Lampson needed a phone.


















































You need to get ready, you've completely lost touch with reality.
And you know what you really should be doing. We talked about you getting married last night.




I have a bad feeling about this.


























- By the way, beautiful girl, do you hear me?









































































That's just fine, sir.












Beautiful room, where's your music, your books?




Oh, so you got dressed, beautiful.





Worse, Harold. I'm married. I'm so screwed!
Worse. Much worse, Harold.






There's a lot to do, to go to a lawyer, for example.














Please, we have so much to do, get her a plane ticket.


- I need to check your health.































That's right. We need to file for a divorce.
















Stanley, you need to take off your jacket and walk around a little.


How long does it take to get a divorce?

I don't want insurance, I need a divorce!









Mrs. Ford said she'd take first place if it wasn't for one thing.
































































It's her first day, Mrs. Ford doesn't know anything yet.







































Honey.


The ones in the white hats are good or bad?
Whites are good, black people are bad.

- Okay, thank you very much.















Honey!




Honey, I have a triple formula.








Breakfast's almost ready.
Honey, good morning.















When I was 22, I thought I had to close all the outlets, or the power would drain.



























Harold, your real gift will be ready in a week.





But it's beautiful here now.











I'm glad to see Stanley so happy.





But I think they're so cute.
- Nice.





That's why men need to be controlled.







What's wrong, sweetheart?










































- Hey, honey. Sorry to wake you, but I think it's urgent.


















Thank you very much.







First of all, women.









This is the greatest advantage:






All I need is a beautiful smart girl to be a wife.











Honey!

Honey!








Honey, did I do something wrong?



























He's beautiful.


























You're an old, annoying bat!
Yeah, old bat, that's what I meant.







They're little sensitive creatures.















Women, fuck them! Anyway, we need to develop a plan-- you're here, I'm there.








But I think we should warn you, our business is bad.
Pretty much. Very bad.






But, honey, you're...

But darling.

If you continue to justify murderers, one beautiful morning you risk waking up unemployed.




























Of course, of course! Congratulations, sir, well done, well done.





I'm so happy right now.
I'm happy.




I think it's gonna be 20 years, but it's not as bad as it looks.




































11 beautiful, happy years.

11 beautiful, happy years.



As a typical example of a happy married American.
You're such a happy married American, aren't you?














I can get into an electric chair, which is much worse than the witness's.





Let's also assume that if you press this button, your wife Edna, with whom you have lived 11 beautiful happy years, will magically disappear.










I'll mark two important points.
Her disappearance will be completely harmless, and, more importantly, no one, repeat, no one will know that you're the one who pressed the button.

















You're missing one important thing.









I'll tell you, for several years in a row, a very nice gentleman, who doesn't understand why Mrs. Rennie's name is, took my shirts every Monday and returned them on Thursday in fine condition.




You know, with Edna and the kids, and payments for a house in Scartsdell and, of course, a lot of insurance.
It's a lot of money...






Maybe he bought himself a little plane.



















When was the last time you thought about girls?






The new secretary of my insurance agent...
High girls, thin girls, little, chubby girls.


Instead of an insanely expensive house in Scartsdell, you're gonna have a whole house of your own.







All you have to do is press the button.







Shut up, you old bat.





Easy.

































It's like old times.

I have a confession to make.






But sir, one day she'll be able to come back.

It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.































































It's up to us to manage the souls whose well-being is more important than bossing the regiment.




















It's all ready. Jeger's waiting.

























Nice to meet you.









I'm listening to the barn. Are the horses ready?














And he was taken worse than the worst.








Honey.





So we met at the same place by the tree with the doopy, and I came first, and then he did.
















Good night.











I'm happy to serve you and accept your offer. Thank you.
I'm willing to sacrifice my life.









Friends will be waiting for the bride and groom at the church when they get to the wedding. Everything will be ready from the church. We'll be right at the station.
Is the three ready?










































A mustache farmer and a small ulna were modest and not for nothing.






















Accepted him worse than a retired sitter, for God's sake.




The one who remembers the old one...


























































The first one went, do you hear me?















I've been careless in giving up a nice habit of seeing and hearing you every day.

The memory of you, your sweet, unmatched image, will from now on be the torment and joy of my life.























Sweetheart, good Maria Gavrilovna don't try to deprive me of my last comfort.







































































It's a big holiday.












How's it going? What's new?





































After all, it's good to come from the army, everyone's happy to see you.
So, for nothing, my old friend, we were saving our freedom,





Giant Zhuravlev is a big man.




















































































































































- No, we need a new one.











It's the first time I've seen it.







































The first money should be fun to skip and remember.

You need shoes, Serezka without a suit.




























Last day, tomorrow's circulation.

The happiest ones are left.


The last leaves of their naked branches;

















Wishing is boiling. I'm happy again, young.
































































Take it all, I don't need it.


































No matter where you're staying, you're an adult.
































This is New Year's Eve.











Happy New Year to you.
Happy New Year.
What would you like in the new year?








I wouldn't be around much at night.

















So what's new?


























I understand you, there's such a philosophy that you're always happy that you're not an asshole that's worse than you are.






There are wardrobes, but there's no one she needs.








































































































- It's okay, it's okay.






























































































































































Thank you very much.






































































Yeah, yeah, everything's fine.







































































Nope. Call me in case, the phone's old.























































It's a pleasure.








































But I don't feel like coming home lately.














What do you care? You don't need that, and you're not interested.
You need to think less.


























But okay, let's not talk about it anymore.








She hasn't been very good at it lately.




For each and every one of us, the day comes when you have to think about something important.




Why don't I know, my dear?






















That's it, my dear.
































You may be right, but you're not going to get any worse.




What else do we need?






































Good night.
































Nothing matters but you and me.






















- Got it. We need to check the recording of the series and zero.























































































His lab is starting to develop a new model.
You're gonna need people, you're gonna need perspective, you're gonna need growth.
















Old joke, but funny.
We heard the last question...



It's okay, it's okay.
You know, there's a word you need.



















































Maybe, but sometimes you have to ruin your temper.


You're not interested, you don't have to, I can see.
























I'm glad we finally talked.







It's not the best position, but it can be worse.































You're okay, and I'm okay, you're okay, and I'm okay.
I'm not sick.








One day you turn around and notice that there are other people around you.






























I don't need anyone else, you know?









































- What's new?



- What's new?


































The first time I got all the stops mixed up, I couldn't remember.
































You have a lucky ticket.














The man is not the first to qualify for etiquette.




















The biggest secret is your friend.


























































































































A man dear to me, like...




























- It's gonna be a year. Happy father.
Lucky, you can't think of any better.






It's a great opportunity to get rid of the neighbors.



















Hello, sweet potatoes!























At the Ural Motor Plant, the tests of a new powerful car have been completed...







You'd think Kolka didn't come to sleep for the first time.




































































































































































But I'm happy that I have both of you besides my family.






And as hard as it is sometimes, I know we don't have anything more expensive.



It was Monday, first day of the week.







Not a calm girl.















- Nothing new?



You know you're beautiful?












































We'll do it my dear!













I look at a little girl half reckless,


































In this old country of civil war, the contradictions will forget the causes of this war.

































I can feel what I have to say, too.




















Isn't the gallows ready yet?

All set, Lieutenant!















































































God is great and merciful...





























































































What's new on the front, soldier?











Dinner will be ready in an hour.












True, it's not great, but it's very romantic, even though it smells like it. There he is.





Heavy patients need strong drugs. That's what the French say.












There's nothing more important than the man himself.
























You're a lucky man, Mueller.














I am relieved by your belief in a new, happy world that will rise upon the ruins of anger and violence.



















Gentlemen, the last three hours we've been talking about the Freedom House...







Big ones.


Love, my darlings, love...

































Anything romantic, beautiful from the classics?










I've been told it's quiet here.










Just like old times.









































































































It's an honor.



Beautiful.




















When you were a kid, you liked to play with her.







This is my only son, sir... and he has a little child.





When you were little, you were with your parents...
And I'm willing to die in his place.



















That's the way it's supposed to be.









































































































Yeah... I have to go to the commando.














































Come with me, you need to clean yourself up.










Madame... I need to say...



































For the last time, more than 20 hours ago.





I need to know where the searchlight is.










































You don't feel good about it yourself.























I'd like to inform you that I'm prepared to take the responsibility for destroying the searchlight.
That's why I'm asking you to give me the freedom to make decisions that I think I need.











What do you want?
We need to destroy the searchlight.
















Yes, I allow you to destroy the searchlight as you see fit.










You let me make the decisions I think I need.

Ready?



























Ready to fight anywhere in Italy, Galicina!

You promised you'd help me if I destroyed the searchlight.
































To Italy, or to where Your Excellency deems it appropriate.









Your last surgery...















































I need one of you to do an important job.

I'm ready.
























































Be happy and go with God... otherwise...















He's too young to go back to his land and work. I had to go after him.





































































































































Oh, my dear...

Oh, darling... what a coincidence...























Look, honey.






Oh... how happy I am...


My darling.


Don't, darling.


If there wasn't a war... and you didn't have to leave.




Oh, my dear... are you upset?




























































































It's so good to see you.





















How little we are, the apostle.












But I'm so glad to see you like this.



















It doesn't matter what my father says.















To those sweet, beautiful words.










































What do you need a trial for?



What do they want?







Get out of here or it's gonna get worse!




























What a beautiful weather.














It's so good to see you...

Move in with me, leave your stuff there, find some new clothes and stay there.




































The apostle, we must defend ourselves!














It's just a few moments of love... but it's something more... that I can't come up with.

























The film brings us into the world of folk legends and the well-being of the old Carpathians.














Oh, my goodness, keep me at least the last child, my Ivanka.































You have to, Anno, you have to.











I got a new skirt, desks, stitched stockings.





- not my first one.
Oh, my dear brother, who did you leave us with?

My dear brother, who did you leave your babies on?
My dear brother!



Petrick, my dear, who did you leave me with?















Who did you leave our little Ivank...

























Big anger in our family.


















darling, you're mine.



















- Good luck, Ivanko! - Thank you very much!



















































Oh, my dear child... why did you leave this world for nothing?








Have a good trip.






I don't know what kind of good guy was, and now he's so miserable, he's all over the place, he's gone, he's filthy, like he's an old grandfather.
























I sold a cow and hired Ivan Paliichuk, an orphan, to build a new one.



























I gave him a shot of a burner, a candle in his hand, an apple bite, and he's happy.


















Ivan, dinner's ready.




















Praise Jesus Christ, dear masters.





















































































This will be the last battle of the 9-year war.



















Perren, put this in a small bottle and give it to the doctor.






First, lead group, you lead, Kut.


We need to get the fridge!
















First division's gone!





























When I leave the army, I'll buy a little house by the river.


























We gotta get out of here.








We need to get the fighters out of here now!




I need that machine gun.





















It's an old trick, but it works.






































You can't get out with the wounded! They need to be left here with the meds!






















I need to talk to T!















































We need to clear the wound...





We need to get some... lt's not bad!

































The first Willsdorf runs.

- The last one? - Nope.









Rudyer, is your head bad? Stop it!










Lieutenant, you should be in Tao-Tsay at night, because Fa-Long... 30 minutes of Perren...












Green. The worst.

Chief, Chief, we need a syringe.





























































































Roger Bannister became the new one-mile champion with a 3-min 59.4 sec.











































If you want rice, take it.


- Good to see you.





































































What a beautiful valley!



























In 1946, during my first campaign in Indochina...








The captain (died in 1949) decided to launch a large raid in the jungle.







When we were coming back, no one was in the first village.



























































































































I'll give up everything you need.




























































































We're gonna smoke big cigars...

























Look at the last house over there.

































































































Lima Bravo, very bad connection.












Easy!









You first...















Take him to the village. He was happy to sleep here!







What's wrong with you?



























































































Even the last poor man has tattoos.















































































She's getting worse again, and I'm out of meds!



























She's so beautiful.













































































Dr. Niide is very busy, and he needs help.


He always talked about the need for good doctors.





















You're the new doctor, aren't you?

Doctors in gray clothes are bad.










The old orderman did something nasty.






















































Please go to the first room of the north wing.













































There's nothing more solemn than the last moments of life.














I fainted in my first surgery, too.

















He was working again, despite all my warnings, and now he's getting worse.













He needs peace of mind.


You're the new doctor, aren't you?




























But I was a little girl.





































































And he has a beautiful wife.






















Sahati and I were the first ones to rent a place here!






































He needs quiet.


Two beautiful men, two deaths in a row.
Old Rocusuke died today.












































I'm so happy.
I'm happy, but I can't.














































And you're happy?














I don't know if I'm sad or glad you're alive.



















We were too happy.
We were so happy, I was scared.



































Onaka, how beautiful you are.




























I need to talk to you.


First call to Matsuder's mansion.

















You're worse than a sick man.

You're eating expensive dishes... and you haven't picked up anything heavier than food sticks in a long time.




















But then it doesn't matter whether it's a bad doctor or a good doctor?
And there's no difference between expensive drugs... and those sold at the pharmacy?






































































































She's your first patient.

















You need to lie down.










































You need to rest, too.


I rewritten what I needed.


























































If you need anything, I could...






















And my dad would love it if it all worked out like that.





That's his first grandson.








It's for... I heard she didn't leave you while you were bad.
























She needs to be kinder and more patient.






































You just have to wait for it.




































































Now I see I've put her in bad hands.




















I'm so glad I gave it to you.





You won't have to do anything.





































- I don't need that today.




We don't have to take care of food, and it's gonna be fun.




And a lot of birds, as beautiful as I've never seen.



You're awfully beautiful today.
I bet the birds in those places are just as beautiful.


I want to remember you so beautiful.
You're beautiful.
Terriblely beautiful.




















































No, I need to.



































There's no need for any special rites.












Everybody ready?




















Beautiful.

























































Look, doll, I'm a big boy now.


Monsieur Johnson, the ladies must be treated politely.













































Big.





Because there's something I need to do first.
Uh, do you need to go to Resident Control? Nope.













No, only when I was a little girl. My father told me a lot about him.





































I'm happy to do my job, Monsieur Johnson.

Miss, we need to cross the northern zone, you know that.

I remind you that you need to go to the control point of the residents.




We need to report on him.










I need telecommunications.




























When will you kill yourself? Hurry up! We need a cousin's room from the south!








































We need to get out of here together. You're gonna be okay.
But first you have to...






















It was my first night in Alphaville. I've already felt like I've been through a whole series of centuries.



Central memory is called this... because of the big role she... plays in a logical organization in Alpha 60.














But we forget we have to find out what a plus is.












While the radio was talking about the motion program, Natasha was talking to me with the voice of a nice sphinx.
Nice sphinx.
































We have to go ahead and live!






Excuse me, Professor, I need to talk to you.






















































It's a very big meeting.
Yeah, we've been looking for a big omeguous for three years. Okay.






No, Monsieur Johnson. You don't have to tell me why.







He was sent to a small town in Palestine to finish his invention there.












And in others, we're less and less trusting them.










One hundred and eighty-three big omega break.





I want to... I want to know, what's a big omega?



Under the leadership of Professor von Brown. The big omega will be the victory. Antimatter.





It's a big omega.








I said that I was too old to discuss for hours.

















We need to destroy them.

I don't need to show you anything to make me understand.





Then they were packed in big trash crates to make room for new convicts.





























Here! Little princess.


























































All the worse.







In the last two or three months, words that I loved very much have disappeared.





























I need to know the truth.
























































You don't need to know. I've seen the night create the day, and we don't change. Loved by all,..
And my love is only one. In silence, you promised you'd be happy.










You have to go ahead and live.





















We need a professor!







Once upon a time, a very small man entered a cafe in the northern quarter. He said, "I want a tasty hot coffee with sugar."






On the quarter day,.. when the little man came in and said, "I want a tasty hot coffee with sugar."
























































Something worse will happen to you than death, Monsieur Lemmy Couching.























Those who didn't die or suffocate from the absence of light were running at great speed like ants.


















Impossible, princess, you have to come to it yourself.













10th year a little dark-haired nationalist leader Hitler is coming to power with already


















This applies to you, first of all, and to the shit you write.











































Your hairbrush is ready.






A lonely woman like me to have such a guest in our time is a great fortune.
I'm much more comfortable.





































































See? I told you we had to get out of here.








































While we're arguing here, we could load up the rest of the bags and I'd be calm.
















That's very nice of you.


































































































It's weird, but this is the first time a man's been attacked.









































































































It's a beautiful time.










































































































































I've had beautiful visions.







We need to hurry now.


























































































- Asshole! I should've put it right.






























Brother Chief, I report, the squad is ready for training.





























Ciril, you ran away when you were a kid, too.











































Would you like to take something smaller than a farm folder?







He was cheap, worse than a dog.












































































































You're going down the old road, across the wooden bridge...




- On the old road, across the wooden bridge.

































































































































When I catch you, it's gonna get worse.





































Wait, it's not gonna get any worse!






























































































You need to wash your neck, canals!



All the boys in the woods, you're the only one who needs special problems!










































- Cyril, is a horse more expensive than a motorcycle?






Old Chumat.



































































You're the last bastard, there's no shame!



















We are ready to demonstrate and have prepared all the progress reports and what we have to do.
Tell me, Miss Sorenson, is your husband suggesting that this project is fully ready to be tested?



All the equipment is ready.





I understand you haven't made much progress in moving forward lately.
No, we've come a long way in the last week. Really?
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, You haven't made it in an inch in the last seventeen weeks, have you?








Nice to meet you, Sir Charles!











You've got a big dose of radiation, you can even say the limit, so now you're gonna have to deal with it.




































Which, in our view, is enough to overcome this last barrier that divides us and our success.













He believes that a nuclear explosion at this depth would be a great danger to our entire planet.





Now, for the first time in our lives, we can master it without using toxic waste or destroying our oceans.

And if this experiment is successful, we can transform all our continents, and in the near future, all mankind will have a beautiful life.

I hope I didn't disturb your bedtime preparation, my dear.







You need to rest. You're too tired.




























Steven, in the afternoon, after a meeting with the commission about the world situation and the future of all mankind, I made a decision, a very important decision.


























Are residual radioactivity calculations ready?
They'll be ready within half an hour.



I don't accept favouritism, and my wife has much to do with it.










































































If we're gonna stitch up holes on this planet, it's no wonder I can stitch up these little holes.



















Okay, do what you think you need to do.




















Is it that bad?









If you think it's necessary, then...




All channels of communication are ready.







Hello, Dr. Rampion, good to see you.

















Another such explosion, only deeper, will cause small cracks to grow to great proportions.









Last check of readiness for all sectors.

Sector 5 : all set.
Sector 4 : all set.

Sector 9 : all set.
It's all set, sir.











































Thank you very much.












A new era has come!




I'm very glad you were wrong.










I'm so glad you're back!

I'm glad you're back with us, Ted.














Using these metals, we'll create new industries.






Big herd.









The first subterranean thrust took place in the morning at five o'clock. 11 seconds.






"Listen to the first messages from Port Victoria."







"Our television programs will be interrupted when new news comes from Port Victoria, "our television company."










What evidence do you need to deny the connection between these two events?




But it seems they were ready for it.















Take who you want.

Steele, go see if everything's ready for underwater shooting.































































Now we need to find out what we need for this?












Give me reports on the latest eruptions.







We have to drop the internal pressure right now and in a much larger volume, and that's enough charge power to do it.


Now, now, it's done.




Prepare all spectrograms during the explosions of the first atomic and hydrogen bombs.












Less than Hiroshima.
Less than lung cancer.







Steven, I need to talk to you. Please!

























Now you must be very happy about it, my dear?





That's very kind of you, my dear.









If you're going to do a comparative analysis of them, the older ones will be lower.







I've decided to go through the film with the first atomic explosion.

















By using the same force, we can make a new splinter large enough to reduce its pressure.






























































































Everybody be ready for the explosion!












Are all the registrars ready?
























































He's very sick.










Check all the seismograph records, run a wave intensity analysis, they should be ready for my return.



































Even that little cup!





















What's the latest?






























So it's gonna be the first time in half an hour.










No one has ever seen the birth of the new moon, Macefield.












Reynolds, where did Rampion last make contact?























































































It's a new edition of Lara poems.

































Big.
Big?
I was a little girl.
She looked big.





























































Say good night to Yuri, Tonya.

Good night, Yuri.
- Good night, buddy.
- Good night.



He needed a good job.


It's their right to be beautiful.



She's exciting, important. Maybe it's beautiful.


You'll find out that beautiful creatures do terrible things to people.





















They don't know what's good and what's bad.
















- Nice handwriting.




And such a beautiful figure...







He's an adviser to very important people. Yeah, I know.







Tuesday, if it works, darling.















It's her first ball...

















Come on, darling.





This place must be awfully expensive, Monsieur Komarovsky. Yes.



Very nice.








Good night, Victor Ippolitovich.
















Time to go, darling.












No, Pasha. It's important.


Oh, Pasha, darling.




Pasha, darling!









Pasha, darling, I'm not your comrade.














Monsieur, you're at 6:00 today. There's a very important person here.




















I'll be right out. If you want, darling.





















That's very nice of you.








Come on up, darling.

Come on, darling.


Well, honey, that's it.











- She looks beautiful from here.



















































- It's beautiful.





























This young man is the first.










And as we know, you don't belong to the first one.
You, my dear slut. I'm not like that.





















I have a beautiful announcement.




My dear man.























He sent me a lovely letter.


Your father wasn't a bad man, Yuri, if I could call you that.























Most of them put on good boots for the first time. When the boots come down, they'll be ready to listen.










Happy people don't volunteer.
They're waiting for their turn, and they're happy if age doesn't let them.



























































Is this Lenin gonna be the new king now?





















"And most importantly, my dear, how are you?"














This house used to be very nice, don't you think?












My dear...














































I smoke the last half of the last cigar in Moscow.



- Is that true, darling?













































I don't need anarchy!






















































Soloma changes every 10 days, old straw burns.
If there is no fresh straw, the old one turns over."

































We're going there, darling.








































































































All we need is blood, Petya. And the garden.











I'm awfully happy to see an addition coming, Yuri.


I'm terribly glad.





Bad news?



- That's not bad news.
















































- It's worse and worse. All morning doing arithmetic and G.O.


- It's beautiful, Katya.











- I'm going to Juratin, darling.







Yeah, yeah, honey, do what's best.




Comrade Doctor, I need a doctor.
















You old bastard!







What's important, Comrade Commissioner?







With victory, the military won't be needed.
































- Tonya. Yuri, darling.


















She's beautiful.
My dear. I'm sending this letter to Larissa Antipova 'cause if you're alive, God forbid, I think you're headed that way.




It's big now.


















We don't need her.

- We don't need her.






- Do you need my help?











































- I don't need it.


























































Come to me, darling.


























I think I know Lara as well as you do.














There are important people on the train.























I'll tell you about my first meeting with your mother. - If she was my mother.




I thought he was happier than me.
He let me buy him a new suit and get him a job at his former hospital.
I saw him go to work the first day.













I knew your brother. I need your help.
























Comrade General, when I was little, I wanted my parents.

I wanted to die when I was little. You know?




















































Not bad. - Did you have a good trip?










Yeah, it's number 29 on the first floor.





This hotel is old and needs good restoration.
But if I had followed your advice, my dear Mr. Bernard, I assure you, I would have been ruined.






If you need to work, you'll be much more comfortable here.





Besides, here in the house, I really need another woman's hand.




















Yeah, I'd like to know. No, bring me a big bottle. I'm thirsty.










- Pretty good.













My job is fatally boring - a newspaper salesman in a small town always edits stories from nothing to do. (? )
















The memories here are the subject of my new book.





What do you want?



- Not bad.
































If you need anything, anything...


That sweet girl who was here last year, she doesn't work here anymore?

























































































But the money proved it, dear Mr. Bernard.







































These things are very important both to the hotel and to me personally.



I didn't care, and I wasn't hungry.





She was very nice.

Very nice.
Good night.
Good night.
















































I'm so glad to hear it.



























You're an even bigger coward than I thought!








It'll be bad if they find out where I'm taking you.





















I'm warning you, he won't be happy to see us.




















What do you want from me?


















This is the first time she's been able to come down and eat.


































What do you want?


























The first time was a few days ago.

























I just need some fresh air.






But this new tragedy was no less mysterious than the Tilde story.





























I learned something important, and I'd like to tell you.





I found some new details, some new leads.
















I knocked on your door to see if you needed anything.









Okay, I'm very happy.


Don't worry, I have to go.

We apologize to you... if our service here was bad.
Unfortunately, this new tragedy forced our guests to leave the hotel.





People always beat you when you're sick, Irma.































































































Congratulations again, my dear Commissioner.

































































Now the professor's knowledge is more important to Fantomas than all the gold of the world. You have to prove that the police commissioner's brain is worth at least a billion.


Change the methods. We need to change our methods.







































































We must remain calm and calm.
















But don't worry, Professor Marshan won't be able to complete the work without the results of my latest experiments.

It's scary to think. That would be great.

































































- Go on. He's always got bad grades.



























































































































- Is he ready?
- Almost. Almost ready.













































- So you think-- - I need to leave now.
I need to go to Rome now.









I'm happy to welcome our dear colleague Professor Lefèvre.









Dear colleagues, I'm glad we're here again to share our thoughts and take stock of our scientific research this year.























Mr. Chairman, I'm very glad you agree with me. Let's not waste any more of our valuable time on these unpleasant conversations and deal with scientific problems.






























































Yeah, that's where it all started. The second alleged professor, Lefèvre - Phantomas, attacked the first professor, Lefèvre, i.e. a journalist, and started a fight.






















Signor is indeed France's first police officer.














I'm the first French cop to be a lunatic.






All you have to do is say yes or no.






































































We need more initiative.




- All set? - Ready.


It's not that important anymore.





















- My darling. My love.
- Now's not the time, darling, let's go.



















































Calm down, dear Helen.















And if this great day is the last day for you, you may find comfort in the thought that you were the pioneers of new science.




Since Lady Beltham disappeared, I need a close friend.









But you wouldn't mind giving the victim of science the last cigar before he died, would you?














Thank you very much.








































































































































-... will tear off the old paint.



























Don't you think he's too old to fly without a partner?












We have to get there the first time, or we're gone.



































We're gonna open up some canisters to signal, but we're gonna need a butter.
















































I'd leave it for later. When he gets much worse.
































































I don't think you're gonna find the right station until tonight.























If I sent you a telegram, it means things are really bad.









































































































































































































































- What's up? Ready?

































For this to come out, you need a pilot class.
Maybe the wreckage isn't the best proof, but Frank Town is the last of the great pilots.










































During the last landing, we lost the chassis.



From there, it's a beautiful take-off site.









We need 12 days to implement the project.





















That's very important.







We need a pilot, Mr. Town. I concluded that our chances of survival are kept to a minimum.









But there's something more important than your stories.

I don't want to assure you that I'm an old veteran.






I also noticed that I need a pilot class.












































Don't mess with anything until the assholes are ready.





















I need a cape key.








Ready, Mr. Town?
Yeah, I'm ready.






































Hey, upstairs. I need some help welding.










































































Let's get to work, you old drunk.







If Dr. Renault needs us here, you can replace him with a dynamo machine.




















Almost ready.

































Dreams he's in a binghazi with an old friend.








































Ready, Sergeant?










We need to ask the Arabs for help.



































































I'll take care of them, but we need your instructions.















































The biggest one was Adler.






The biggest one I've been working on is Jeger 250.









































People can barely walk tomorrow and they're gonna have to drag her.





















So it requires more stability in flight,.. than what you call "the real thing."






















He knows what to do, doesn't he?
































I never thought water could be so beautiful.






























Too much weight!








All we have to do is press the switch, and it'll automatically turn on the source of the noise. It's something.

























I mean, big races.




















Motorists are proud to learn that Webber's automobile company represents its most recent and best achievement.




That's the kind of car I'm willing to die for.







It's an honor.



She's ready.
Yeah, she's ready.










We're ready for anything! We're gonna shoot them so hard, we're gonna send them back to the world!








You need to go there now.













In college, I was the first woman to be the editor of a newspaper.
And I'm gonna stay chained to this door unless I'm the first female reporter in New York Sentinel.










Oh, your competitors are gonna have a great article--








Let me report on the big races.


















He's wearing it. And even very expensive.












And such equality plays a very important role.















Are you, of course, telling me that I'm the first woman to ask for a personal meeting with the Great Leslie?













You gotta be careful with that!


















Do you want a wife, a companion, or just a woman?















































































All set?
It's all set.



We're ready to go.




What? Since my job as a reporter is to be there when the first car crosses the finish line, I have to win.






























































Thank you, sir. And organizations like Sentinel, we have to deal with it first.


















"Stimer" is a beautiful and fast car designed for city and country picnics.













No, you don't have to ask how, but I'll finish them.







We'll only get you to Boraco. We're gonna have to gas up there.



























Yeah, we care about every second.







I need gas and I need it now!





What else do you have to tie up?


Do you need a rope?









Gentlemen, I welcome you all from the best of my heart and will be very pleased with the honor that has been bestowed upon you.
Oh, it's gonna be a big party tonight.








To the beautiful city of Boraco.












Move, darling. How long will you stay here?










Beautiful.
Honey, you have a great smile.







Look, I've got to go, I'm gonna have another show.








Dear Jack.















Jack, darling!





Fight! Big fight!
There's a big fight in the saloon!














































































Then I guess I'm gonna have to hurry, 'cause I'm gonna be late for the train.






































It's bad if we freeze to death.











































To the next of kin. We're gonna have to lower the seats for that.




























I'm not sick of champagne!
I'm sick of the sea. You don't have to scream at all.















I'm gonna put this note in a waterproof container. In it, I gave important information to whoever gets it.
It's important information to whoever gets it.



But... we need to figure something out.

Even before this ice melts and we drown like rats, a beautiful thing will happen to us.




Even minutes are important for survival, Miss Dubois.





























She understands everything. How long does it take to open the cans?














It's all set!






















































We need a job.
We need a job.






Yes, darling.

Sorry, honey.









You need to come out to be friendly.





































I told you I should have sent her!
And I say we send her when I say she needs to be sent!


What do you want?






















It was beautiful.
































I'd be honored.













I apologize, Your Highness, for being late, but I've been delayed in some important matters.




I have to tell you, he has a lot of his soldiers who are armed with great swords, and the baron has a great reputation for the ladies.











The only thing I don't like in the palaces is that it takes too long to get from one place to another.

But I liked it when I was a kid and I could play in those halls.








Good night.












Beautiful car.




















































When we get to the palace, you're gonna need a moustache.

































More like saving the professor.



Some little cuisine.





As long as Leslie's free, we have every minute of it.

As long as Leslie's free, we care about every second.


There's a big lake.




All you have to do is answer a few simple questions.









More like saving the professor.



















No, actually, she's just making me feel better.

































Your Highness, we need to get out of here.





















I'll find myself a new adjunct!




























































I think we should turn right at the next corner.











I had to turn right to drive to the Eiffel Tower.












And since I think I'm completely free and conscious of morality, I can still call myself a responsible woman who doesn't intend to jump into bed with a man on the first signal. Equal rights don't mean I have to act against my feelings. And I only agree with the things I believe in.






Do you think it's bad proof? Boss!







I was able to win the biggest victory in the world after all!























You and your friends always make it worse for me, and I'm upset!

I'm calling you to a new race!


































































































































Caili comes every day and they're all happy to die.
The chosen one has the right to wear a sacred ring all day and at the end of this happy day he is stabbed.


- Until they choose a new victim.










So send him back to this girl. She's gonna be happy to be Caili's victim.
































































- I need that ring.










- The lasers are ready.












A new day is coming... and a new victim has already been chosen...










A little medical secret.
I hope he doesn't get any worse...
























- That one over there with the big nausea.




There's a little problem...












I'm glad it went so fast.

































































We need protection.







It's all set, we're right below them...





























Looks like I need another map...








You haven't used that finger for the last hour, and, in the meantime, we're all in danger.































Fine, I'll be a knight soon.























Everyone's been winking at me lately.
































































- For the last million years, no.

















- Ready, he's gone.































Who needs this ring when I have this?























































You have to drive 15 miles past the gas station then turn right to Thompson Street and drive along the mouth of the river then turn left and drive miles this way six, and there'll be a red barn, driving it.....






























- Okay? - We're running late, darling.










- Hello, darling.








Good night, Libby.
















Honey, canceling the meeting now would be such a bad time!
It's a business, and it's a relationship thing! Can't we find someone else? But, darling, I've searched everyone I know before I hire Mrs. Bill.





We'll be back with the first light of the sun!




Goodbye! - Bye, honey...






I mean, compared to my apartment, everything here is so big!




















Well, now I think all I need is a few "game fields"


And your guys have a map to get to? Well, it's not that bad.





















































With my wife who needs to use the phone, too.






No, it's not your mommy, honey.

Well, then why don't you try again and dial the number very carefully, sweetheart? But I got the wrong number and I spent my last call...

Of course, sweetheart! What's her number?








That's so sweet of you to call.






You think something bad could have happened?
Well, honey, I'd be worried if they weren't picking up the phone at all.





Look, honey, you sure got the right number.




- Well, tell him you really need to talk to him.
But it's just awful important!


























You married an infantile, an empty-headed, little fiber!
But now we can do something beautiful together.
















Good night, Amy.




















































Let's drink to the first night we spend together.





We're gonna have a beautiful life.
Just being together is really important.

Oh, I need you, Steve... leave...
































And Suzette's only part of it... honey, if you're in trouble, I want to help you with everything I can!


















Well, then let's go somewhere nice and quiet...
I hope you understand how important this is to both of us.













































































I've tried calling three times in the last 10 minutes - the signal's coming, but no one's answering.



Well, calm down, honey, maybe they'd like a good night to Carman.


































You little whore! You give yourself a price, you tease him!







You don't understand! - You little...










Look, honey, you're too young.


Another infantile, empty-headed little slut!


Just remember, this is your last so-called Suzette.
And she's your last. Put that on your nose right now!












All I have to do is pick up the phone and call the police.

Maybe you're what I need...


























- Thank you so much!

Now! But look, honey, maybe it's okay!


















But you put your wishes first.




























Oh, that little dumb-ass! I don't know if I'm gonna get it!













You should contact your parents. You made them worry. Come on, come here, honey.

Okay, honey, okay.






Yeah, I know, honey, but you don't have to go anywhere like Tess?





- Good night, sweetheart. - Goodbye!







































You could say it's a game of anyone who gets to the ball first.

























































































































- Thank you very much.












What's new?







Left two big black loafs, sliced white loaf.





Did he say what he needed?























In your new place, you'll have a more responsive audience for your jokes.










Thank you, sir. Then I can buy a new infrared grill.

























My darling, that's out of the question.






We've lost one hundred twenty-six people in the last two years.
One hundred and seven had compelling reasons for moving to new places.






We believe we have the first real trail.

































Also, if there's anything I need to tell Ross, it's me.






















































One last thing. If the Winterman kidnapped Radcliffe, he'll sell it to the most generous buyer.























We need to ask about Grantby in 19 different places and write down 19 stupid reports?


















- What's her phone number? - You're an old bastard.













The last one was only two weeks ago.







I need Donaldson's Crystal Structure of Nonferrous Metals and Wilson's Metal Fatigue.


Mr. Grantby, we're looking for an object of great scientific value.


We're ready to make a deal.










I need your regrets!











I need your reports as soon as possible. Even if they don't do any good.









Dolby prefers to know more about newbies.






























































I need a detention protocol.











Screw Dolby. I need a task force.






I need your help.
And he's dead, and I need a task force.
It takes a 3-H clearance.










We're all set.














That's not good.
At the focal point, the start time of the operation is given in 2.25. You started at 2.35. That's what's wrong.
























We still need to find Radcliffe, gentlemen.





If you want mushrooms, they're cheaper.





























I don't need the file, enough microfilm.































If you spend the weekend with me, we'll both be much more comfortable.












Beautiful patriotic music.





We're interested in an object of great scientific value.












My masters are willing to pay, say,..






























- You're not? Then we'll have to come back here tomorrow.






My dear, I am happy to see you in good health.





And so I am very happy to ask Dr. Radcliffe to share with us the results of his work.

Ladies and gentlemen. Today I'm going to talk about a new method of mesonic production that was developed... a new... method of... production... mesons... a new method of production...











































































It's all we need.












This is Palmer, Major. I need to talk to you right away.


I need to see you.







Who needs this?





















I need Colonel Ross.






































He's ready.




































































































































So it won't be ready tonight?





































When do you need to be there?

Well, Mr. Guha, will the car be ready tomorrow?




- Your luggage's big?






















Thank you very much.




















Yeah, it's better to know firsthand.




















































































He was the first in the economy.























































Or even, we're together, aren't we, darling?




Don't you need a heroine in the movie, Mr. Roy?


Each garden needs its own method of cultivation.




We need rain, we need sunshine.






























Are you saying it's good to see me again?
What, I don't think I'm happy?
















































































Even if it is, Amy... the first few months will be hard, but it's nothing.






















































You don't need a little more time, but something else...




- Are you happy in marriage? - What's the question?


It's important, Karuna, I need to know.



















Karuna, just tell me if you're happy or not?















- It's a beautiful place you have here.







By the way, your car's still not ready.


















It's been a while. It's all done.







































Beautiful.


























- You know what would be worse?






















Someone will enter your life... and appear as a great...































You can't be happy.


- Maybe I don't want to be happy.





All this booze? Didn't he ever treat you badly?
I'm ready, Karuna.







































I'll wait for you at the station until the last...

















- Thank you very much.








First grade to Hashimara, please.



I need it.






Birinchi Maharaj is great!


































































There's a new boss at work,







You know, in spiritual matters, the important thing is to talk less.




















Let him find me a suitable source of income. And I'm gonna believe he's a bike!










































Is that good news or bad news?

















It was love at first sight and he's been dreaming of marrying her ever since.



























Don't you know that his guru is a big, enlightened man?






































































Then you'll get a big bonus.









































































































































































































































Here's the best moment to get to him, he's in the right mood.




























































I need a very strict meditation.









And it's gonna take a lot of spending, a lot of spending.












































Babaji's new performance is magic.

















































































































































































You can find anything in the New Market...







Very small, very small.



































This room is small. Call people in turn.




























Got to set fire to the first blow of the clock.



He'll be the first to react to the smoke.

































Fine, fine.

































But the money must fall into the right hands.
Hands should be needed.



In fact, wealth doesn't matter.
What matters is which hands it falls into.

































































































































He doesn't know any more than an old lady. He's a bookworm at one o'clock.






























































Though he is no more dear to me than the torment of hell, at this hour I am commanded by the power of life to be seen, the flag of love to be raised, oh, only to be seen!



































- Tell me, what's new? - Hello from the Duke.






You were summoned and waited with impatience, but they didn't catch you at home, and the Senate sent watches all over Venice to find you. That's what you found. Beautiful.

What does he want here? Mavre will be happy if he legitimizes the spoil:















Your grays, my dear Signor, the sword will inspire us to listen. A contemptible thief!













My case is important, and my fellow Senators and Dogs must honor my pain and burden:




































































Which one of them should you obey first? Father!









I am happy with no more daughters, and with this I owe you my treasure: I would have been made a tyrant by your escape, and I would have put them in the wells. I came, Duke.

So, armed to the teeth of the Turks are ready to crash on Cyprus.



















A witness to the sky, not then I ask, to satisfy my first passion. I just don't want to embarrass my wife.
But may God save you from the thought that I may be in such an important undertaking because of my favourite cause of neglect.




I'm ready now!

Leave us, Othello, the man who will bring you your orders, the order of your appointment, with the word, everything you need. Here's my celebrity.




Hallowed Signor, when a beautiful soul is given to shine, not cherries, but your brave son-in-law is beautiful.






You'll deliver both on the first ship. Come on, wife.

























































Yeah, Cassio's beautiful. I wish I could take up his post with all the doubles. Let's see.






































God gave him happy protection.
As if in a sense of beauty, Vala and the storm, the roaring whirlwind and the reefs, the sands, which, lying in the depths, are ready to swallow the innocent ship, everything, forgetting its evil temper, opened the road of Desdemona.



Inflate a strong breath every sail so that he may adorn the port with pride, that he may shake again in the arms of love.
















Take her down with patience, dear Yago. Well, being raised lets me do it.













I'll be able to wrap a big fly like Cassio with the thinst spider.


If these tricks are gonna rob you of the lieutenant, Lieutenant, you better not kiss your fingertips so often! But what are you gonna do if you're so eager to play the gallant manners? Beautiful!







Beautiful warrior!
Othello, honey!
I'm as surprised as I'm happy to have you in Cyprus.













Well, how do old acquaintances live here?


Yeah, sweet Jago, go to the port. You'll unload it there and send me to the captain's fortress:


I'm happy to welcome you to Cyprus.







And besides, it's beautiful and has everything that both debauchery and inaccuracy desire.







































Keep an eye on the guards at night, dear Cassio.

I have given such an order to Yago, but I will also look after myself to be calm. Yago is an honest guy.
Good night, Cassio.














Well, let their marriage bed be happy!

I've got a jug of wine, and here, at the entrance, there are two or three Cyprus studs waiting to pick up a cup in the health of a black Othello. Not tonight, dear Yago.










Besides what he had to drink tonight, he's ready to fight like my master's dog.
And the fool Rodrigo, who is made out of love from the inside, has already baked for the health of the sweet one a few full quarts, and he is among the keepers.




I swear to God, I've already had a big mug. I swear on my honor, little one.




















Oh, sweet England!







And wear your old pants.

This song is even smarter than the first one. - If you want, I'll do it again.


God is above all else, and there are souls that must be saved, and there are souls that must not be saved. - That's right, dear lieutenant.













- Well, that's great!
















I love Cassio, and I'd be happy to heal him from that weakness...



























Whoever moves first to the benefit of anger, moves toward death.



























Here, darling, the soldier's fortune:





















And it's up to people to put in the mouth of an enemy who steals their minds!


I think, my dear lieutenant, you have no doubt that I love you. I have proved it, Signor:






















































But I beg you, when it's not too difficult for you, to give me the opportunity to speak to Signora alone. And it's beautiful--







So calm down, Cassio, all I can do is trust me. Please.































And if there's a little Dana for me, my dear husband, a little power over you, have mercy!



And I suffer. Honey, make up.



























I'm happy to be obedient to you in everything.



































Open yourself, as if Thou speakest with thy thoughts, and speak with the worst of words the thought is the worst.













But whosoever snatches a man's honour, he shall make him the last beggar, and he shall not be of the least value.










Or do you think that with every stage of the moon, I'm gonna be a new torment, jealous of grief? No! No!


Tell me that my wife is beautiful, don't mind playing and singing among friends, dancing, singing, free of speech - doesn't mean jealousy wakes up:


If you're gonna be smart, you're gonna have to see everything.
And if you're smart, you have to prove it.

To throw away jealousy and love. I'm glad to hear that.













































Consider, too, whether your wife is in a hurry to cancel the punishment, or to beg, or to beg. It's all important.



- No, I own myself, stay calm.


















Lunch is ready, and the leaders of Cyprus, whom you invited, are waiting.









Your handkerchief is too small! It's gonna pass.




This is my lady's first gift.













That's the first gift to my wife from the Marv.








Give it back to me if you don't really need it:




No less wicked jealousy than the Bible's argument will strengthen me.














And kissing Cassio, kissing him, I didn't find her on my lips.













And if thou didst slander her by betraying me with torment, and forsake thy conscience and thy holy prayer, to the horror of a new horror of thunder,
























It takes time, and it's hard to get caught off guard if you let the Lovers catch you by surprise.

























Yeah, Yago: That's my first present.














































Fine, my friend.







She needs the fasting and the death of the flesh, the prayer, the convent and the piety:

Beautiful hand! Open!
























































What's new, my Cassio?

















In such cases, the human nature is not alien to an argument over nothing, even though the mind is excited about important things.



















What's new, lovely Bianca?
































I'd be happy to forget about him!










































When he leaves, come back. Let's talk.




























And beautiful. However, everything has its own hour.


Here is the provision of the wicked: they will be cheated a hundred, and they will be deceived by the first hundred.




It's worse: I'm killed by the loss of the honor you gave me right now.




























What's wrong with you, my dear Bianca? What's wrong with you?








I really need to talk to you.











But what a woman! Beautiful! Sweet!










- All the worse!
- Oh, it's a thousand times worse! And yet she's so nice!











No need for poison:

Beautiful!
Beautiful!




Beautiful!






Good to see you.


What's new, dear Lodovico?
Sir, I am happy to see you in Cyprus.

















I'm very happy.


I'm glad you're crazy!






































- It's not good. But I'm afraid he won't do what's worse.
Wasn't that the first time he did that?







Yeah, but it wasn't bad in memory.







I'm willing to lay down my soul that the lady is pure.


































Am I the reason, sweetheart?




































What is the matter with you, dear lady?
























I wouldn't do that to the last girl!






















Oh, sweet Yago! How do I get my husband back?



















What's new, Rodrigo?


You, Yago, do me every day with some new fiction.






That's it! Beautiful!

Beautiful! Next!
There's nowhere else, and it's not that great!

Beautiful!
And I'm telling you, it's not great at all!













Uh, no, Othello's going to Mauritania and wants to take the beautiful Desdemona, unless something unexpected is holding him. And the most decisive way to apprehend him is to take out Cassio.


















































































He's so handsome that I'm compared to him, you loathsome bastard.























































My darling, darling!



















Take it, good people. Easy!












































One more, one more.

































































































































One more word, my dear lady!




































You were sweet to her, the vilest of husbands!



















































I'm glad your father's dead, poor thing.


For her tender work, she gave him my first sign of love, the first gift--





















Brainless beast! Why would anyone else expect a beautiful wife from a madman husband?































Don't be afraid of me, even though I'm at the sword. This is where I dock, here is the target, and here is the beacon of the last journeys...


























































Who, like an Indian, cast away the Pearl, which was dear to the treasures of all the valleys around him.





He was heartbroken, and I was afraid of such a break-up, but I didn't know he had delivered the dagger.






















You old bastard!
















Dinner's not ready!













I'm his old friend.
























If I don't do twice as much as I did in the first week, I'll give up the idea.































You have a beautiful quiet life here!












I mean, if I have such a bad face?
It's not bad!



























Are you sure it's not that bad?











And it looks like she's just as scared as you are!








































































































































Mommy, darling! Beads!





















Beautiful name!





























- Maybe you need this.

















































It doesn't matter what time!





It's good to see you.







































































































You don't have to worry!
A few steps from here, there's a place where little girls wash their hands and so on.











































Thank you for my beautiful day, Gordon.

It's my lucky day!










Aren't you glad you went outside?



















Thank you, darling!























































Gallery number six: ready food - canned soup and vegetables, cereal, baking!


That's where I really need your help.










That's what we need!


















































- Is everything new here?


Smells new.














































She's blind. And she needs help.



























- Glad you like it.




Most of the time, I've got the radio on, but you can't talk to the radio. - Your milk. - Thank you.






























Everyone needs a friend.













Anyway, he was very rich and important.

- She was just a beautiful woman.








- You sound like a man with a lot of experience!






























































- I'm glad.




































Honey, poor thing...


Sweetheart...
Sweetheart! ..














































- Feeling bad, darling?


































I hate you, you dirty, drunk, selfish old bastard!












My darling! ..
My darling...



































































You think I'm bad?




I'm glad you said that.






















I've never been so happy before.





















Maybe you should make him last.


































































- I can't stand that old brute.
- I thought you'd be happy to get rid of him.












- She's becoming a big girl!





















- She was just a beautiful woman.





















You lousy old bastard!
In all my thirty-five years, I've never seen a lousy old bum like you...





For a dollar, I'll do anything at any time!







































She's only gonna make things worse.





I'm an old man, Slina.
Too old.








I'm a worthless old drunk.














Sadie and I are starting a business together, there's a new place.






















Thanks to you, this is the last place I've seen!








Take care of your stuff, sweetheart, I'll be right back!
























One or two words in the right place will quickly end this.









But if you can stop Rosanna with this new place, I don't have to go to school.














































You blind little fool!

























Yeah, she'll be ready.




































Selina, you're gonna meet a lot of new people, men and women.










I know everything I need to know about you.




...and I think you're handsome.
Beautiful?




Yeah, honey.






- She's ready.

First teacher
Kyrgyzstan First Years of Soviet Power































What the hell does he want your school for?


Who cares?






































If you don't need it, we do. Soviet power.






















Lenin is the biggest teacher.

Today's your first lesson.












































































Shinel will buy a new one. Calpak's new. With a star.



















You shouldn't, honey, you're trying!

















































































He's coming back! You're an evil old talker.
You're an old fool.


You're talking to an old man. What example do you set for your children?


























































New... steel...















A real fiancée! Esselam aleikum, dear guests!
























































You've fallen for the old world!






































I didn't see it. Beautiful.






You don't meet any dear guests?











































































Yeah, we need to hurry.



Darling!
The best, the most beautiful!



























And I was an old fool, and I couldn't spare her.


I'm an old fool!



























What do you want here?

























And remember my words! This is the first freed woman in the east.


Our Ayl, the first Ayl where the truth has defeated evil.


The earth is big. She's not out of the woods.
It's so big, it's gonna get lost.




The custom is needed while the people are dark. And we're gonna teach the people.


You're a bad teacher.

I'm a bad teacher.




















I'm ready to give you my hand!







































You'll live and study in a children's home. Tashkent is a very big, beautiful city.
There are big parks, gardens, big streets, shops, and tall houses.
















Well, you're big now.











































































I'll only leave when I've cut down your top floor. And I'll build a new school. With big windows and a strong roof.





We don't need school, Cartanbai.





















I need the rock to stand in front of me, but it's crawling around the canvas.













A city built on old bones, whitened from time to time. to Shakespeare, King Lear.













































He gave me this beautiful place, believing it would work better here.






Look. This town is beautiful.




































Hello, darling!











Good or bad? Well, I didn't think of him as...



















What luck. But, you're gonna be okay.









































































































No matter what, the first night in Calday, it wasn't bad. Isn't it?

















Well, how are things at home still bad? Yes.
Dad's got a new mistress.

















































Glad you're perfectly healthy.
















I'm glad you invited him. - Excuse me!








































But I think we need each other.




















































































































The fools, however, perform an important social task. 'Cause it turns out they're perfect lambs.




















































































But, that's, that's great.





Beautiful love of my life.







I need to read three new pieces.










Have a good trip!













You're beautiful.






































It's beautiful.
















I found another man. It was my great love.





































It's so good to see you.





Good to see you.



And how can Mr. Brenier believe you used to be handsome?





























If I need a new apartment,
New job, Reginald.
































Well, are you ready?


















































Take it, I'll give you the money back. I don't need them anymore. Wait.

- Why do I need them?
















She's beautiful.
Very beautiful.





























































Well, let's play a new game.
























































































Your mother loved another man, not me. It was a great love for her.























































































For your father, you need my house! And there's a woman in the house.
- I am! Jenny, what a great idea.

























No, look, he and she are already ready for the Holy Alliance.































Upstairs, I have a big room.












But now I'm calm. Yeah, of course, except for some emotional scars.





Ah, Jenny, Jenny's love, I've never been so calm, and in a world with myself like this. Peace? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,










































No, I'm wearing a new scandal I can't see.
My new Scandal underwear, youth line.














Being fresh is so easy: soap purifies, perfume gives a beautiful smell.































































































































































































She made you look bad.







































































































































Life may be sad, but it's beautiful.










It was the first, only dream.






























Our resident used to be happy.







Because he thinks you're beautiful.






































My amazement was so great, I couldn't move.

My heart burned and was ready to burst with happiness. I am fire.






























































It's my little, but it's the same price, it's the same price, it's the same price, it's the same price.















If you want to get out of here, we need money.

















































If I get killed, it's worse.








I have such a small line of life.







A man no longer needs a mirror to talk to himself.




The weather is beautiful today, my love. In dreams, words and death.
The weather is beautiful, my love. The weather is beautiful in life.



















- What do you want?








When I'm done with the first one, there's gonna be a second one.






































I need her.















































- I'm happy.






















Thank you. Read the last page.


Beautiful mad Pierrot.











I'm looking at you, listening to you, but none of this matters at all.




















































































- Nope. Small port.















A woman can also shoot, although she has beautiful breasts and thighs.





































































Beautiful, adorable woman, you know?








She wasn't as beautiful as the first one.









































It was the first, only dream.






















Damn, it's a beautiful death!



















- Still, I don't lose hope that one day we'll be holding the fourth volume of "Memoirs Super-secret Agent."











Life is beautiful!


































Dear friends!























Beautiful thing?





Honey, will you take me home?

















New books.


































































- I recognize old Stanislas!





































It's very important.
We've been developing it for the last three months.



The first is that you don't wear the Legion of Honor, and the second...











Their organization has grown significantly in recent years.


















Deal, dear nephew.









We should be first in her apartment before he gets ahead of us.













- I bet you're interested in his last words.











































- What a big family!










Dear colleague!






































Ah, dear friend.







How are you, dear friend?


































Fine, take him to the living room.






























A little miracle.











































































My father gave 30 years of entomology, he's been a retired diplomat for 10 years, but he's had a bad heart for the last five years.














You look very funny in Dad's old costume.

- Thank you very much.

























Your suit is ready, monsieur.





























I have important information for you.




As time waits, I'm ready to give you a place where a very important document belongs to my unhappy brother.





























What do you want with him?
Nothing important.


Why do you need Monsieur Vesnorian?







Fine, just fine.



It's very important.












































It's a big secret.


Not today or tomorrow, these dolls would have gone to Moscow through Berlin... with a detailed account of the last NATO session.












We haven't met before. I'll talk to you first, you answer.
















She arrived less than an hour ago.











Come on in, darling.

























Good night.

















- Dear friend!


What a happy occasion I owe...














































There's nothing here, my dear Dubois.




































Dear friend, would you be so kind as to stand up against the wall?

































- Thank you, darling.


































Big and fat?



























Why is this old bitch picking on me?








































































It'll take at least an hour.

Put the meat in the water and make it for at least an hour and a half.








- It's worse when it's midnight.






































Hello, sweetheart.
































I'm warning you that the last time...






























- I need to check my head.



































Honey.























I'm glad you're listening.
They all need one thing.

The more you make them pray, the happier they are.





























































There was a guy, he was hungry so he was ready to eat his shoes.




















































I just feel so bad without you.

























- I assume you need a sister? - You think so?
Of course I need to see her.


I doubt that, my dear.
































It's your family, isn't it? Very nice.











A little kiss.





Honey, what's the matter?






- I need to make a call, now.
- Do you need a phone?

























































I'm gonna get a leave of absence, and I'm gonna be their first client.
















I want to go to bed under different men and make it bigger.













We need to kill a few people for example.





































It's the only time she's happy.



New girls?

















































































Why, is he such a big shot?










Thank you very much!













Ever since I became a military man, you've been the first person to publicly show hatred for me.

























































































He comes to the adjutant on the first call.














As they say, "We only need victory."











































Thank you so much.















































































Maybe she needs money. Let's all drop a little.





Because you don't have to go on punitive expeditions.





































It's the worst.

























She got drunk, and she got sick.

It's the first thing you've done.

















































We need a machine gun.








































I thought it was the first time we were alone.




























































































You need to rest.
























It's not good to be captured with a girl.


He's worse than any idiot.











































I need a grenade to escape.
























Corporal Siniti Mikami, ready for shipment to Daigen.




Are you ready to die the brave for your country?


































































And from your new pillar, you can continue to inspire our brothers by your repentance, by following the path that our holy father Simeon Stolpnik has given us.









































We're gonna have to dig up some gardens. We'll buy a new shovel. A lot of work.
























I'll bring them a big jug of fresh stuff by dawn.

























But, weird thing is, the less I eat, the more fat I get.

I'm grateful for his concern. Tell him to forgive me. I know better how to fast.

There's been a big change in the monastery. Guilty won't happen. Drink water with tmin and pepper.




You don't need anything else, Padre?















What else does it take to be worthy of you?






















































































































I feel good, you last pig.




























































This is the last time.






















It's the last one, the final dance.








































































- So cute, so wild.









































Maria, when you saw us and wanted us, you weren't ready for life here, were you?












- And you're ready for her?






A governess is needed in a family in Saltzburg until September.


















It's nice to have a big world, freedom, a heart should sing.








Let me dream of what I need.
I need courage, that's all.












Power is not one, Power is smart, and not in money, Power is in a peaceful dream, in a clean conscience.
My heart is calm, my heart will not fail.






From the monastery, the new governess, Captain.
I'm an old butler.




































It's... a new governess, Fraulen Maria.














The house is great, frauleen, and the land is vast.
















I'm 16, and I don't need a governess.




- I'm the worst.











But... Fraulen Helga had worse.














No, I need some advice.



































How important it was for me to realize that I was accepted, and you helped me to feel that I was here to be warm, happy, and happy.


















































Start her like this: "Dear Liesel"...
"Dear Liesel, I need to tell you... an important thing.








"Dear Rolf.

























It's so small.

Where's the little one?






You're not ready... to enter this world, you're shy, you're afraid... of strange things.
You need someone older to give you advice.






I'm not ready... to enter this world, I'm shy, I'm afraid... of things I don't know.
I need someone older to give me advice.



New dress.




- How many dresses do you need?














They've already ordered new ones.
- I don't need...
- Good night.












Well, good night.
Good night.

Prepare them for my new mom's arrival.

























I said I didn't need a governess.
But maybe you do.






























































































- I need matter.





Good night.


































The first three notes of the gamma are the do-re-me.







































I need words.





























- You need a companion, and I have a place where they cook good, drink good wine... and get cheap. - Really?












































Beautiful, lovely, smart, sweet, wonderful mistress.

















Sasha Pitri stole them first.





















































































And my kids are walking around the Saltsburg... in old curtains?



















Kids need love.





























- If you need me.
- We do.


























That's a great impression.





Important announcement.












































Every morning you nod at me, tiny, white, clean and bright, you seem happy... to see me.



Edelweiss, Edelweiss, every morning you nod for me, tiny, white, clean and bright, you seem happy... to see me.














Good night.
Good night, Dad.
- Good night.

Good night.
This is gonna be my first ball.






What beautiful ladies.











































Beautiful couple.











Captain von Trump's children wish you a good night.






Good night, y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y












I'm glad to go.




















It's important.





























You're beautiful.























Champagne, darling?






Elsa, this is important to Austria.




























Whatever you say, honey.






Honey, haven't you heard of a nice place like boarding school?




























Cute kids sing for me.

























Dad, who's gonna be the new governess?



You're gonna have a new mom.
New mom?


We'll be very happy.











We need her.













- That's very nice.














It's weird, she's glad she's back, and I don't think she's...

Bring her in, even though she's not ready.




You're not well.










I felt... something new. - Oh, no.






















I'm ready for a haircut.


























So who's gonna tell the truth first?















































When Mary was bad, she sang a song.































The most important thing is Daddy's getting married soon.














It doesn't matter anymore.





Thank you, sweetheart.

















Beautiful axe on the Mediterranean, or less to let in the bathtub?















Don't say another word.



And I have to obey...




Goodbye, sweetheart.


Do you need anything?




























































































On his return, he will take his place in a new order.














Are we gonna sing in front of a big crowd?




- You're the most important person.










It's good to see you...











I've got better things to do.




















I'd say it was a last-minute decision.








- Honey, on an exceptional basis...








































The old world goes into darkness, blooms as if it weren't.























































































Edelweiss, Edelweiss, every morning you nod for me, tiny, white, clean and bright, you seem happy to see me.


Edelweiss, edelweiss is tiny, white, clean and bright, you seem happy to see me.








This is the last chance for the Von Trapps... to sing together.
Right now, there are those here who will escort the captain... to the new duty station in the Third Reich fleet.
So, ladies and gentlemen, the last exit of the von Trump family.






















This award was awarded to... the first soloist of St. Agatha's Church in Murback... Fraulen Schweiger.

And the first prize, Austria's highest award,


































No, honey.








We need you, not them.































































I want a beautiful wedding.


You're still so beautiful.















Honey!


















- You think you need experience.

It's important that I choose you.


Tell me, how was it the first time?



























Yumiko will be happy with someone like you.





























- Enjoy! The last single days.












It's gonna be a beautiful couple.















Misako, maybe I'm wrong, but your boyfriend today isn't the first man in your life?




That's what matters.






Misako, I need to buy something.








You should know how happy I am!


And very handsome.

It's important for a girl to get married.


























I don't need the money or the boss's position.

Honey!













Hang on, darling!






































How beautiful you are!










































You're still so beautiful!
And 10 years ago, it was even prettier.


























































You're beautiful.
I'm so happy, Shizuka.

Stay so beautiful all the time.


















- We're a beautiful couple.


- You've been so far away from me lately.







Dear widower, am I interrupting?



You're gonna be the first boss under 30.












- She's bright and beautiful.








Marriage has made you even more beautiful.




















Yamazaki is an old catcher.


You don't need me.













- I'm ready to follow you anywhere.


















How's the new apartment?



























We were so happy.




































Good night.






























































But it wasn't that bad.































Nice sunset.






Honey.




































- Shut up, old man, it's a military secret!
































- You want first or second grade?





































































































- We have to wait for the wife.






















































































































I need to print something. May I?



































































Protectionism is the worst, especially at the beginning.





We'll get there in less than two hours.










No, Napoleon is great, the revolution was a great cause...
I'm sorry, my lovely Vicomte, but this unfortunate holiday at the ambassador's is robbing me of pleasure and interrupting you.












Why do we, women, want nothing, do we need nothing?














If it was a war for freedom, I'd know I'd be the first to join the military.


That would be great!














When I thought I'd break up all this expensive relationship...

























































Petrusha, my dear friend. Come on, you!
















And you don't have to bet, that's what.








It must be very bad for Grafu Bezukhov.

His health's already bad, and now it's grief from his son, it's gonna kill him.
















Hello, my dear.








- I don't want the whole world.






There's one thing I need to tell you.








The name's dear with the babies.
What, you old criminal, you miss your tea in Moscow?






















We have to fight to the last drop of blood.



That's how old gusars judge.















One thing I do not stop praying to God, my cousin, that he may have mercy on him and give him a beautiful soul to leave the earth in peace.


























































































If you have to say what, say it.



That you're lying. Tell me what you need.






It's bad, huh?
- What's wrong, Father?













































You know, it's important.



Oh, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my.
The shades are new, maple, slatted.


A young woman walked out for a new gate,
To the new ones, the oaks, to the bars.



















































Sit down, I'm gonna need some good office.
You're the one who needs it.






























































































Goodbye, sweetheart, sweet soul.


























At yesterday's meeting of the Council of State, our new Governor-General, Sergei Kuzmić, read the rescript of the king from the army.













She's beautiful.





Of course, it's a very brilliant party, but happiness, my dear...










I'm very happy.
















And before the battle, there's nothing more important than getting a good night's sleep.

Tomorrow, I feel like I'm gonna have to show you everything I can do for the first time.












Well, if I have to, I'll make it as good as anyone else.
























And how happy I am to finally recognize him.




Here's a beautiful death.













We're very happy to see you.























































The health of the hero of our last campaign, Prince Peter Ivanovich Bagration!








Well, now to the health of beautiful women.




To beautiful women, Petrusha, and their lovers.










This is a very important moment for you, Graf. I can't help but tell you the truth.







Well, are you ready?
































































I believe that the less people know about the suffering of the birth mother, the less she suffers.



God has mercy, no doctors are needed.









Mary, sweetheart!











































Convinces that you see a precious creature that's connected to you that you're guilty of and hoping to justify.




























































Each of these cities, and each of these airfields as a whole, is the largest concentration in Britain of potential nuclear attacks on one acre of land than any other country in the world.












Category One:














According to the latest government plan, healthy men over the age of 18 are not eligible for evacuation.



















You don't have to argue.
















































We distribute as many residents as possible these booklets, which tell us how to prepare our homes for the explosion and the fallout.














































So the allies can be the first to press the button when they start a nuclear war.





























That's how the last two minutes of peace in Britain could have gone.

















This little boy suffered severe retina burns when he was 27 miles away from the explosion.


















I saw... a man... who was captured... by a big gust of wind!








































I had a little boy with me.















If I decide to hit and possibly kill a man, I have to be prepared for moral responsibility.





































Everything you see now happened in Germany after massive bombings during the last war.



























After the nuclear attack on the United States, how would Americans live if they were used to cars, big houses, television, freezers, and so on?













On that day, the first member of the hunger riot was killed by the police in Kent.





In Germany, during the last war, it was observed that people who had suffered deprivation, even among the so-called decent middle class, became indifferent to the law, engaged in looting, black market speculation and petty theft.





Three days later, the first police officers were killed in Kent.


























Because of the radiation, this little boy has only half the amount of red blood cells he needs.








I saw a little boy here yesterday.




















































So, from city to city, from country to country, it's been 10 happy years.















Everywhere, enemy spies eavesdrop, mark, transmit the biggest secrets of the state to their governments.
On the other hand, due to economic decline and general discontent, there will be major changes for Governments and domestic structures in many parts of the world.





It's so good to see you.




- I feel great. I'm glad to hear that.















You want a cigarette? Last one.

Money is the biggest problem.


















This is where I write down ideas for new numbers.











My dear baby. We got your letter from Madrid and a greeting card from London.

Yesterday and the day before, we were very successful.


I keep thinking about you and your new ideas for work.
















Okay, we need the money.









It's your friend, your big friend. Television is evolution...

Because, believe me, the world isn't very stable. We can't even appreciate how much it is, TV, we need it.









































Now there's something new.






Did you come up with some new jokes?




















You have a very great talent.











Beautiful!








It's beautiful.



Let's go inside, everything's ready.



















This is my last trip.








You don't need him.


































Let them all eat after they've cleaned out the first tusk.











































For my little singer.



Team One, let's go!






































No one told us at the agency how big this building is. Or that we should serve eight guests.






My dears, why are you all so frowny?


Since I'm not English, I'll break the ice first.













Where have you been lately?


















Honey, it happens to me all the time.















Okay, I'm ready to go to my room.

























I'm afraid this was the last one.







Ten little Indians decided to have lunch.


















It's been a long time since we last met.






We're having lunch with ten little Indians, and the owner isn't.









To our little Indian friends! And of course for our master!

- To our little friends!









- How's that old song singing?
- My dear sir, what's the old song?

It's an old "The Ten Little Indians" song.





Who knows the first verse?
Ten little Indians decided to have lunch.




Nine little Indian singers "snatched their noses."


Mr. Onum seems very fond of these little Indians.
Eight little Indians in Devon went later.

Seven little Indians played with an axe.

Six little Indians on the meadows went for a walk.

Five small Indians have done justice.

Four little Indians went swimming in the sea.

Three little Indians in a beast.

Two little Indians lay in the sunshine.


He's already done with the little Indians.

The last little Indian looked tired, went and hanged himself.



Beautiful.































































- I don't want the Countess's money!





I received a letter from Mr. Onim inviting me to visit him. And meet an old friend of mine who was also supposed to be here.




















And it's not the worst way to make a living.

















Ten little skeletons in ten little closets.





Anyway, but I think we all need to get out of here right now.



























Too long in the old courtrooms?





































Ten little Indians decided to have lunch.























































Maybe that's what the owner of the house needs.















We need to search the house.
















I think you should do the same.



























My dear, will you come with me?







































































I'm almost ready.


















Of course not, my dear.

Don't tell me, my dear Miss Bargen.











General Mandrake... - Seven little Indians.








My dear doctor, that doesn't prove anything.


































Now, my dear, don't talk about it.


























































- Good night, Mr. Blore.

- Good night, Doctor.
- Good night.






























Beautiful.



I'm glad someone had a good night's sleep.


























































Six little Indians on the meadows went for a walk.

















































































































But my dear doctor, Mr. Onum made a mistake.









- Who's gonna talk first?


































That's the first words I've ever said to you that I believe.






























Don't be afraid, my dear.














An old tricky fox.



















































































Good night.

- Good night, gentlemen.
- Good night.












Now, to open Miss Clyde's room door, it takes two to get the key.


- Good night.





















Honey, I'm sorry.
































It doesn't matter.



















































































It's a game of mind, my dear.
You're just in time for my last hit.



The last little Indian looked tired, went and hanged himself.









Excuse me, dear cat.



I have to admit, I was looking forward to this moment when I could tell the last of the survivors.



To achieve what I wanted, I needed an assistant among the criminals invited here.
I needed a man whose fear of death would make him stupid and conspiring.



Your scream was beautiful.


After that, no one ever suspected me. And the least of all is my dear doctor.
We agreed to meet him outside during the blizzard. And it was only at the last moment that he realized what a stupid thing he had done.


The only question was, which one of you is gonna be the last?
I bet on you, my dear. Women are more devious.
Everything was inevitable, like that old song.


Yes, my dear.
I'm a sick old man.




Just like the last little Indian.











In the last episode, John Robinson, the father of the world's first family to colonize space... tries to repair the ship's navigation system but separates himself from the ship and is taken into outer space.



















And you need a friend as much as I do.























Well done. Tell Dr. Smith to bring the biggest one downstairs.


You heard the big fire extinguisher.


So far, at 1800 hours on 21 October 1997, all efforts to reconnect with Jupiter 2 and America's first space family have been in vain.
According to the latest data from Jupiter 2 received prior to the collapse of the communication, the ship has serious damage caused by the premature activation of the robot responsible for environmental control.













Yes, my dear.
















Coming to the end of the first day of our flight... everyone is alive and well... including our additional passenger, Dr. Smith.













Ready and ready.





Good night, daughter.
Good night, Dad.














I believe in new cybernetic paths for our friend.





I don't care how you got on board. It doesn't matter.

























How big is it?







































































Don't be there long. I hope you don't have to, darling.

We need a man, Will, while the rest is gone.



























































Not so much. Sweetheart.


















But it doesn't matter anymore.




And I hope you understand how important their navigation system is to us.























It's done. I'll tell you when.








However, I was able to get important information from their ship's navigation system during our tragic meeting with them.










That's what we need to start fixing.


Wouldn't her extraterrestrial atmosphere be hostile? Wouldn't that be the beginning of a new adventure for the Robinson family, or would it be the end of everything...









Ladies and gentlemen, today is the first family, and then at least 10 million families a year are preparing to go on their greatest journey to the new horizons of humanity: distant space.



They will spend the first five and a half years of their journey in a state of suspended activity from which they will be automatically withdrawn when the ship enters the atmosphere of the new planet.





Brave ideas in fine performance are the most sophisticated and yet the most enormous instrument by which mankind can go to distant space to discover new worlds.




Here, on the bottom deck, pulsating with incredible force... there are large nuclear engines that will move the ship to new worlds.



The key moment upon arrival on the new planet will be a final analysis of the environment's suitability for human life.


































All systems are up and running!
In these last moments before we begin, we hope to have a brief interview with members of this brave family ready to make history.











You're all in perfect shape and ready to go.





- Ready?





We're ready.












The technicians are completing their final tests.





One last look.






The fate of mankind depends on whether the overpopulation of our planet will lead to a hopeless catastrophe for everyone or the beginning of a new dawn for all mankind.







































Flight control center: All systems are ready. Start.



























































































- It's okay, honey.















Don't worry, darling.
It doesn't matter what we decide, but I won't let you in this cell anymore.






























































































































But I would spend a hundred times as much if my family's safety depended on it.






































































































Come on, darling.
She's ready.


My last story.


















Don't kill us, don't ask for anything else.






































Which one of you is least important?

Which one of you is least important?
No, that's not gonna happen, we're all important.
Identify the least important!









The Daleks need information on Earth's current history.
I can give you a lot of information, but I won't say anything that would jeopardize national security.












We don't need him alive either.

























- They need her for something.
We need to protect the Genesis Ark.












































The elevated level of adrenaline suggests that it has important information about the Daleks.











- They probably need me...




























It's good to see you again.























I need to get back, Rose is in danger, just like her mother.



That's great, I'm glad. But I have to go back now.











Maybe you're needed...


The first Dalek I met was broken.








But if the Daleks have locked something in this thing, and it needs to be woken up...
They want you.



















He went first.







































More important things are at stake.







That's all I need.

First of all, I need to call someone.



























The last stage of awakening!






























And Mickey, Mickey's buddy! Good to see you.








The last four Daleks in the world.
















Even dared to get names, all for new ways to kill.
















































































































We need to see what happens, we need to get back upstairs. Hurry!
Everybody, run to the last floor!























I'm ready!


































That's why you need to leave.












So... I need this.





























But I have to go back!



























The johns are ready for work.


Old team.





















We need to turn it on!


























Get in dad's old jeep and let's go.









There's only a small crack left in the universe, and it's about to close.




















































The last of the Time Lords.




I suppose... since this is the last chance to say...












What kind of lights and what are they for, mm?
































































Of course, I will not remind you that the main reason William Conqueror won the Battle of Hastings was that King Harold went to the Stamford Bridge and smashed the Vikings first.







































This terrible piece of rock, as you called it, is a beautiful Saxon sarcophagus.





































- Oh, we're happy to see you Doctor.





























My dear, I... I don't think well at times, but I...









Stop worrying, my dear.












































































- Do you need more proof?





















They're just gonna write a new version.



Well, it's a temporary trip more than it looks.



- Totally, my dear.
















































For this tree, there's an old well.






Where are you with this rope, dear boy?































Isn't it, my dear boy?

- Yes, in time, my dear, in time.











Here she is, my dear.



Oh, I'm glad to see that old police box again!










Yeah, and both very happy to have another one, my dear.





Oh, I'm too old for these things.





"My dear fellow,








Oh, you old fool!

















Oh, good morning, my dear.











What part of my action should I do first, hmm?






















Honey, you're the emperor.






Yeah, they're both very pretty.















Honey!


It's a new servant for your staff, madam.






So, your first assignment is gonna be cleaning up my stuff.



















The whole yard can't wait to hear him play, my dear.









































Poppaea, darling. Hey.




I have the worst headache in the world, darling.


































My dearest, most impressive.
- Glad you noticed.






























I'll be an honorary listener at your first concert!


Yes, ma'am. Find the man who will bring these drinks to Caesar Nero when he's with your new maid.








- Poppaea, my dear.

















That's what I heard, my dear!




























You have to wait the night for the feast, my dear.





Dear Maximus, you saved my life!


























- Be ready.










- She's not here, darling.
The new girl.

A new girl? Yeah, hers!
Oh, my dear, how I forgot about her.







I'd like to play my new composition for this occasion.




It's a very old story, my child. The Emperor's new clothes.


He needs to know that I'm the biggest talent in the world.






































































Barbara's still out there, she could be in great danger.
















It won't be any worse than it is now.
































































- My dear Barbara!






I don't like to say it, honey, but you look awful, to be honest.

And don't forget, if old Coki-Lickin comes to see you, I'll always have this!






















Vicki, my dear...











I think I agree with Bennett. At least about Cocquillion. But don't you think there's a chance, a little chance that my ideas can make a lot better?





Now, I don't think you should wait, my dear.




You're not even giving her a chance, are you?













You have to believe what Barbara did, try to understand, my dear, and why she did it!














The first time we felt the same way.
First time?



















That's how we got into this life with him in the first place.














































































Oh, I need some fresh air.



I'm fine, my boy, I'm fine.






My dear, why don't you come with us?
In that old box?
We can travel anywhere and whenever in that old box you call it!


And if you love adventures, my dear, I can promise you their abundance!









Vicky, my dear!



Okay, Vicky, are you ready to come with us?


















That's better, my dear. Now they're really fighting for their lives!






























- The new slave you bought...




































I don't need a reward.




You're giving me a new hope.























July, 64 to the new era.




I suppose the plan will be ready at any time.











And if you're going to implement your plan, today's your last chance to kill Nero.




















Maximus, darling...




















I'm sure you've got a lot of important things to do than stand here, all over the facts with me?

My drawings of the new Rome!
















Won't let my new Rome be built?
But if the old one burns, if he disappears into the flames, they have no choice!












I never doubted myself, my dear.



Almost mine, darling.


To burn down the old city, and my plan will be accepted.




That new slave of yours, that girl, she and her friends are coming here tonight.

I need someone to start the fire tonight.
























We're gonna start new construction.
The new city will rise from the flames...






























The great fire of Rome, my dear?

























































My dear Barbara, this young lady doesn't want to listen to people who do nothing all day.

You had a great weekend, I'm sure you're looking forward to going back to Tardis?


Hurry up, my dear.















I like these clothes, of course, but I think we need to change them to something more practical.



















- My dear, you're wearing this.




























It's beautiful, Prapillus.





























































































Well, my dear, we're far away.















Never noticed it before, my dear, but since you said no, I don't think so.



















































- My dear Barbara.





















- Why not, my dear?














This theory explains the new moons that appear in the sky.







Yes, my dear, yes.



It's your responsibility, my dear.












- Hilio, this is Menopter's first friend who left Carsin.




- Well, my dear, is everything clear?





























- No, my dear, no.


















Barbara, we're ready.



Yes, my dear... and we're here!






































































It doesn't make much difference, they'll contact the Morokans anyway.



















They'll be the first to find them.


























Yeah, I think Barbara's quite right, my dear.






That's not a good idea, my dear boy.





Make up your mind, my dear?











Doctor, why are you showing great interest in the least important things, huh?
Sometimes the least important things, my dear boy, lead to the greatest discoveries.









Sorry, my dear boy, you didn't notice the missing person when we were standing there, uh, looking at each other.
















Your memory is as sharp as it gets, dear boy!



























That's right... that's right, dear boy!




























































































Otherwise, the Morokans will find them first.

















It doesn't matter.











































































No matter what you say, while you're sitting in this chair, I'm gonna see pictures of your mental images.
























Just my old friends!















I imagined they were still there, of course, the last place I saw them.
As you can see, your little toy... isn't entirely... unmistakable, is it?



I won't need you in the future and you can make a beautiful copy for our museum.

















It happens for the first time, now move!

















Mmm, we need everyone we can get together, why?
Well, if it's that important to you, I'm going back to the museum.


























































Hold me back, dear boy!













It's okay, dear boy... the circulation hasn't frozen.




My dear governor, my dear Lobos, I don't think your soldiers are truly committed to their work, do they?





















But thanks to you, my dear boy, I'm unfrozen and I think I'm quite capable of meeting the atmosphere again.





























It's true, but the governor would be happy if we were both put back there.

























Well, it seems that this ma... little diversion will soon be over, Commander.




























































Oh, not lately.
















You have to do a lot more than that to get out of this situation.




























My dear Barbara, you have to try to remember, in the short time we've been on this planet, we've met people, talked to them and who knows, we could have even influenced them.











































Oh, great!

The future doesn't look so bad after that, does it?

















Oh, thank you so much for explaining.
Don't be, my dear boy, anytime!












You need this.







Couldn't you take anything smaller?
My dear Chesterton, I don't think I need your permission to take anything on my ship, and anything else, I don't...



Yeah, well, uh, basically, my darling, that's what's called the Spatial Time Visualizer.








































































































Now there's something I need to ask... someone.







































































And don't worry about it, my darling. Concentrate on what I'm doing.
Come on. I think... sword, and you're ready.
















































It's a family matter, but it's about me being a man who thinks more like you than us, we need your advice.
































































My dear Chamberlain, how unworthy.
























And El Akira is a bad reputation for me.
I think he kidnapped your companion out of revenge, and in his eyes, it would be a perfect addition to the harem.









I'll come out when I'm ready.










































Ah, how generous of you, my dear.



We should all be willing to make sacrifices when required.





















































































- We need food.
We'll get it from the first village we found.







- It's beautiful here, isn't it?
















































- Thank you very much.








I'm willing to bet my life on it, Vicky.


























We're ready.




























I've got a wounded man with me, Father. He needs help.

























Well, if that's the case, we don't have to worry.































I don't want your pathetic apology.








































Now we're negotiating with him, then we go after the Doctor whether we were going to or not.






Yeah, we heard you the first time, but we don't want to, huh?








































































































































































Well, they need time to get around security.
















But what can one gun do against even a small army?



























































Do you realize that all questions need to be answered in their entirety?




It's not just the right answer, it's the right answer.


Do you realize that all questions need to be answered in their entirety?





































There's everything we need and more!










































































































































Yeah, but we need the most powerful explosion, you know, some new power.




The last thing I remember was the ship, the doors opened and then, well... then you showed up.


































I wish I knew more about what we're working against.










































































































































I may be able to do something about this car, but I need time!




























































The fear of... the horror... of the trembling of the planet in the last moments of its existence!































[Vicky's moving away while she's talking, but the first Stumpy pushes her back]


































The first one we found was seriously wounded.




















We need ammonium gas for our lives.






























































We need energy to launch the ship.













We don't have the ability to convert it into the solar energy we need.

















We'll do whatever you say, you're our last...










No need, my dear.















Ready?





































































































































































Ah, one moment, my dear.





We need extra energy.




Beautiful!











Beautiful!










There you will be able to take the heart so important to us without causing suspicion.




































They still need this Taranium, you know.




Yes, thank you, thank you, my dear, thank you.
















I sincerely hope that there won't be any more such corruption?
























What's wrong with that?



















































It's important that you don't let your people on Earth become curious.

















No, my dear.
















It's very important, so you have to believe me.











Stephen's gonna go first.


This is our only chance, my dear.
































































I don't care what you think, but we're not gonna say it again.






















































Are they ready?










































































































The only reason you were admitted, the Keeper of the Solar System, to the General Council, was our excellent knowledge of mineralogy.

















Easy, easy!





Yeah, I'm really glad you took that gun from her.











































There are little white creatures inside.























































I'm afraid it is, my dear.

































































































































































But you must be ready to go straight to the Tardis.

Yes, you're quite right, my dear.























One, study the Dalek plans...













Not exactly, not exactly, my dear.




This is the last place they'll expect us.










































We don't need him, just his ship.













































First DALEK: Is he back?











Master of the fifth galaxy thought it necessary to join us?




Representatives, I have some important news.




As your new ally and new member standing on this big universal council










































Since he's Greek, do you still need proof that she's a spy?





































I treated the enemy with more respect than my own family.




























































Now, of course, you realize that, uh, we can build a much more capable person to carry.


Oh, think, my dear Odysseus is a fleet of them!














It doesn't matter.
















I'm very glad to hear it, Doctor. Because I intend to build this flying machine.

And you have the honor of being the first person to fly.

You called me first by my name!



























I don't think it's gonna matter when the city starts to burn.





















Tell... tell the old man...







It's a very beautiful square.































Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah, I'm afraid we should be ready for this, Odysseus. Human beings are not meant to fly.

Well, I think it's gonna be a big shame for me.




That catapult of mine is ready, and it's gonna be a shame to waste it.










































Big horse.

A very big horse.



















































































Anyway, I think he's pretty pretty.







You know, Steven, I think I can... be happy here.




Anyway, your new boyfriend came in before I could tell him everything.





















Well, we don't need them forever, after all, we don't build one of the wonders of the world, do we?










Honestly, you're making me nervous like Wakhanka at the first orgy ritual.






























Oh, honey.











You're the last of the Greeks right now.






























But... more important.


























































Everything is ready for their elimination in space.




Randomizer's ready.
















Yeah, their first target is Earth and then... the solar system.



















































I just gave you an important component, the heart.
















Randomizer's ready.

















Oh, my dear young man, you ask a lot of questions.











Great, my dear friend, great.



Oh, I found a little ribbon by the skeleton and she, uh, could tell us something.

Now look at the new miracle.


No, my dear, no.






















































Remote control's ready.





The tracking ships are ready.







My SPAR arrived last 231 00:13:04.573 - -00:13:07.150, so it was in a better position to take off immediately.







































You want another new batch to come here and take our place?





















Ah, it's the worst of them... an outmoded and primitive spaceship one small blow and they're all starting to crash.




































We were the first.
















Thank you, my dear.







Come here, my dear.




Oh, don't ask questions, my dear girl, or you'll be like those two!















Yeah, I think you're right, my dear.
















I think you should achieve your goal, my dear.




I hope so, my dear, I hope so.

















Which gives us the time we need so much.



Oh, I'm so glad to hear it, young man!













Were they right about that little temple?

























Be happy it's the only thing you care about.














Well, since he's here, we need to take a closer look at him.













































































Thank you, my dear, I'll see you later.

























I'm very glad I did that, Doctor.












You'd be my first victim in Troy.




Oh, I'm so glad you came.

Troil, dear Troil, will you do something for me?



































What's bothering you, little prince?
















































Yes, but, my dear child, boy, boy...

































[Doctor opens the Tardis door. Oh, honey, this case...


































It doesn't matter... as long as you trust me.


























We can start over with your brother, we can... we can build a new Troy!




What, my dear?































What was going to happen, my dear?

Dear child, you're not dead!
















Oh, my dear Vicki, I hope you're okay, hmm?





I need, yeah. I have to!





















































I bet they were happy to get rid of it!







I don't think we really need to get that shrine back.










After all, this is the first significant trophy we've captured since the beginning of the war.
























The omens were bad this morning, I woke up full of premonitions.


































Yeah, I'm really glad you're happy with yourself.
I guess I should be grateful for being here tied up like a chicken ready to get my throat slit!













That's very nice of you!






























I don't represent anyone important.







































All you need is a little kindness and understanding.
So, first of all, what's your name?










It's... it's a very beautiful name.





















Thank you so much for trying to help me.
Oh, no, it was a big... [Parice sees the King's warning look and leaves]...fun. [ Paris sees the king's warning eye and leaves]












My dear boy, I can't offer that.



Yes, as you say, Doctor, but in that case, we need to hurry up and come up with something else.





























Paris is such a bad fighter?





After all, I don't need to be here.

My dear boy, are you sure?










Well, I'll take the risk if you're willing to let me go.






































Well, I'm ready to miss that, right now.
















I mean, of course, you need to die rather than be taken prisoner.

You see, the first time I called you, I didn't realize you were really Lion Troy!



























Spends most of his time raiding Greek supply routes with cavalry.




We just need to beat the Greeks to the number of horses right now.









Well, yes... but it doesn't matter.



A little detail can be important.





He's uh... he's very handsome, isn't he?





Look at Paris, handsome as the devil, but full of cowards.






I've always said that it's character that matters, not beautiful appearances.





































Since he's Greek, what else is there to prove that she's a spy?






































The weapon's ready.


Be ready in a minute.













































The last night... that this planet will survive.















































































We're ready to take them with us.










I'm ready, Maaga.





There's nothing to worry about, my dear.














First warning of the explosion.


Well, everything's ready here, Doctor.









Yes, it is, my dear.


But the planet will explode in less than five hours.












They want this ship and we do.













Oh, stop worrying, my dear, and stand still.




I'm ready for that.










It's more likely that the panel will explode.


































And I'm happy, for example.











What matters is what the character is based on and how you use the mind.



All of a sudden, I feel awful bad.















Oh, that's so bad!
















We're ready to disconnect.











You're the one who needs to get started, not us.

We need... we don't need space.










Yeah, I think I understand. Thank you very much.













































What happened, my dear, hmm?










Well, just look at these instruments, my dear boy.



If any of you go outside, it'll be in great danger.
























Outside is the worst form of pollution I've ever encountered.

Oh, my dear boy, I'm used to all kinds of atmosphere.






My dear boy, just give me a few minutes and if it's okay, I'll come back to tell you.









































Never mind, my dear boy. Do as you're told.
































I heard about the housing shortage, but I never thought it was so bad that you had to spend Christmas in a police booth.







Well, the search for knowledge, my dear boy.







Your ideas are too far away, small, lame.













Oh, you must be the new guy from the G division who came to help us out.


I said you must be the new guy from the G Division?





















It's Brighton's new vehicle.
























































He's the new guy from the G division.














































Well, even I, dear boy, must admit to having fun.










So, there's one thing you shouldn't do, my dear.

























































































I need him in the next scene.


























You're making a big mistake.








We need him to make that scene again.






















We need your help as an expert in Arab tradition.


Oh, I'd love to!

How wonderful, Professor!




































No, honey, no.




But this will be the last time.




















When you're the new man in this place, they're after you.


They want something new all the time.
New jokes?





























I'll tell you something, that little Englishman did everything.


But who needs a singer named Bing Crosby?





















Honey!


I'm glad we left.














Here's a toast. Merry Christmas for all of us.




Happy Christmas to you all!

Oh, I'm glad to hear it, Brett.





What do you want?
















It can't be any worse than Desperus!











We're ready to continue chasing the Earth's ship.













































Fine, we're going back together.

















































Got the first bang in 3995.








But this information is vital.










She'll be ready soon.





















If you did this first, we wouldn't be in this position.



















The most important factor is the Taranium.







Are you sure Trantis will be the first after the Daleks?



I agree, his galaxy is the biggest, but he's already demanding too much, talking about what's going on.








































































We need the Taranium, but we can't let anyone know about the plan.












The desire for greater power than he already has as a global burden!


We need to do something to stop him.

So whatever you're planning, it's important that

















































































You're just the man we need.


















Okay, but we need to get out of here somehow!




Tomorrow is the last day this planet will see!


































Yeah, unless they... come back with more trouble.



















Not if the Neighbors get to them first.











And we need your help.





































My ship isn't made of tin like this old bark!













So, we have to go, we have to...









































This is your last chance.


























He's probably not ready yet.






Do you need our help or not?



















You think so, my dear.









Yeah, we should get going.































































All you have to do is take us off this planet and you're free.






















I'll let you kill him when I see fit.




























Oh, I think I can get my old limbs... to play some kind of runner.






































































It's a beautiful sample of a spaceship.

























































It'll be ready, I'll call.





































Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Who fought Hitler first?




























































You don't need a babysitter on the front, but the instructions don't know that.

























So what? You come in unsatisfied, you ask, you don't answer. Bad.





























































You're beautiful. It's like a picture.



- Beautiful, I'll wear them.




















We're on radio. That's where the girls are.




































Beautiful dog.












- What happened, the new car...














































Saakashvili is a first-class driver.










































We need a radio shooter in the tank.




































I need to go shopping.








He said there was nothing new but proof of his good intentions.


They need to be eaten today.





























The book you need is waiting for you.


































Councilman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and students,






























This is our last day, Fran.




Yes, distinguished councilman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and students, at first we couldn't believe it.








You didn't have to.












It's our last day.




- No, I need to go upstairs.















































What's gonna happen tomorrow could be worse.









What's gonna happen tomorrow could be worse.























You were too beautiful for me.















For a little international business, he had to visit the northern village and he asked me to accompany him.






Nice to meet you.











One:






Usually, teeth are important for identification.















































There's a barely visible scar in the middle of the tibia.
Possibly an old fracture, very cleverly corrected.





A small hole. 10 mm in diameter.





































- It wasn't bad at all.










































Old teacher, Mr. Mireveld.









































A very beautiful woman.











Sorry, I have to go to my room.













It doesn't matter.















Good night.
- Good night, Mr. Mireveld.






















You know how beautiful you are, Fran?



















I was absolutely happy for six months.
In your last few months at school, Fran.













I felt how important it was to you, and you didn't say anything.


Govert, I couldn't come first.






I'm so happy, I still can't believe that such love can exist.







































His sister seemed to know them better than I did, but I broke her statement because it was talking about four seals and two missing teeth, and an old fracture down on my left leg that no one knew about,





















In fact, Brantink was only the first of all who worshipped me and betrayed me and those who saved me from all my illusions.
























Brantink was only the first.



Now all I have is fatigue and an old military gun.






















The size of the bullet was large.
























Is that old news?
Is that old news or new news?


Is this a new or an old issue?

New, isn't it?
































I had to be modest from the beginning.








When they're grown up and happy.


Dear Korra.






He was too young for me.
















I can sleep with the first man I ever liked.








He was my first fan.














22 years living together with Etretus is worse than marriage.























































Aren't you beautiful?












































Big love with two single beds.



Liver drugs, tranquilizers, new novels and all sorts of sleeping pills.




"Dear, I loved you the way they loved you the first time.
"I have no courage to overcome the housewife to open up new horizons.


Kiss you one last time.






































































I need someone to take care of me.



















No, I'm glad.
















He's handsome.













I'm late, darling.



Amazingly beautiful.












But he's beautiful, isn't he?




















Little moustache.



































She's cute. A little sad, but sweet.












I need to find it soon.















































Well, the worse.


























He's tall, handsome, funny when he wants to.





And then, all I need is my hand.





























Thank you, monsieur. Thank you very much.





























A very important type.









All the worse.






Congratulations, my dear Corradie.


- Mademoiselle. - Galya, this is my biggest friend.


























I'd love that.










She's beautiful.
Very beautiful.






























































I'm glad you were here tonight.

















































It's nice, but it's not elegant enough for people in their circle.






























Dear Greg, my wife and I are happy to see you.










It's so good to see you.













The important thing is to show up with a beautiful girl.
















It's a gift from Greg for my last birthday.




























Isn't that right, darling?






The last time I came to Venice was with a Dane.




















Hurry up. I have important meetings.














































She's very beautiful this evening.


- Hey! A big coffee with milk and a badge.






















Are you sure it'll be ready tomorrow night by 7:00?












































- I don't need an explanation.







Goodbye, darling!








Beautiful dress.


Greg was nice?

































That's very nice.

































Vespir is a very important person.






My little Galya, I'm not 20 years old.






































I know, I've been acting like a ham lately.





It's good to see you.






I'm so happy with you.


























It's not the first time she's left home, promising to kill herself.







It takes a lot of courage to commit suicide.














































I have bad news for you.


































Me? I'm the new maid.
















































































If Nicole were alive, we could never be so happy.





























































Was he nice to you?
























I don't need them.



























You look calmer in the morning.













But all he cares about is money.
He's willing to sacrifice everything for his ambitions.


Are you ready to do anything?












But with my suicide, I created a new situation.




You're having a big love affair.





























What's new?










































You don't want us to be happy together?

























I'm almost happy, Galya.















































































































































































Be calm for that money.

































I'll wait as long as it takes.






Then, if I'm with you, she'll let me go and I'll be happy.














































You're pretending to be bad.

















































































































I'd like to give you something more than scissors.





























It's an old story.





































I need your help.





































































That's what we need.

























































































































Beautiful.
I think it's very expensive.

















































But you need money.


I need you.










Dear fellow citizens, we, the regional representatives of the peace march...





























































I mean, it's very important.








Everything's fine now, but at any moment it could be a disease.










If you get a dose of radiation, it's important to know if it's gonna affect the kids. Worrying.






























In the military crew, the horse is much more important than the rider.










How much do you need a month?



































































We need to keep up to date with the latest fashions.




- It's also beautiful.




Who told everyone you needed a haircut?


































































But we have to hurry.













































































There was a little girl once.
She was raised by the sea, but she dreamed of a big city.

























































I'm drowning... my dear.
I'm drowning... my dear.

















My last dream still grieves me.














It's not the first time.


















But we'll buy each one a big gift if we win these races, okay?











Because I've always believed that life from birth to death, son, is one big thing.





The wind doesn't carry the right words, son, but nobody wants them.



















I need to say a few words to Jesus, and you're standing here. Give me a seat.



I'm in a hurry, and I need to talk to him right here so he can hear better.




Don't forget. I've got to go, the races are about to start.
























If I'm not mistaken, your mom Teresa has the biggest leg, Josef's mom's smaller, and Candelia's mom's got the goat's hooves.




























- Well, I'll leave him here...




How pathetic. I wanted to see him so much. Come on, I'm so glad you did.










♪ The world is a small grain of sand ♪ ♪ And the sun is just a spark ♪ ♪ And I talk to death ♪

















Here... you see... life... I told you... it's a big... time.






























But can't you see, Padre, that he's willing to kill anyone who comes up to him?


My dad needs a doctor!
No, he needs me.








So, you want to throw the first handful of land into the grave?



Yeah, you were right, Dad. Life is one big thing.











What do you want?














That's not the worst part.
It's worse that you don't even believe in yourself.






































































I'm very happy.










































Remember, once and for all, this room, the raspberry, the patio, it's all part of God's house, and you have to respect it.



















You don't need a gun to scare you, you need a gun to protect yourself in time.

After all... do you need a gun to feel like a real man? Then keep it.





And don't forget, guns need cowards.
The brave don't need it.
We need to hurry, or we'll be late for Mass.









That boy doesn't know God, doesn't know how to pray. He's like a wild animal. He just lost his dad, and that old no one needs a guitar is the only memory.
















My dear brothers, you can sit down.













First :









































You've already mastered catechism. And even though you won't believe it, I think you're ready to join the religion.


Thank you. I'm so glad.


































































You're beautiful.



You're the first girl to call me José Maria.





It's the first time I've heard of it.








I want to admit that I did a very bad thing today.


Well, my son, I know it's hard for you to give up old habits.





How bad is it when a man gets married?













Yeah, but I'm already big, Chema.
And this is where the smallest come in.








































I like you, too, but I have to go.































































Very bad.














Very. He's like a little hedgehog, but his heart is generous and noble.



































St. Rosa, I'm sorry to take your charity, but I really need the money.




I took some money from St. Rosa to give to St. Francis. 'Cause he's been a little tight lately, poor guy.


















I need to get one thing out of my room, and you need something to distract him so he doesn't notice anything.

















































Big cricket, teacher.



































































And that my hand, in the name of God, will always be ready to stand up for him.












That's all. - Be cool, Padre, I'll keep an eye on the money.



He was just in a hurry, 'cause the church is falling down, and we need to find some quick money to fix it.




























































No comparison. What we're going to do is awfully bad.
It's all set.














































I'm here to apologize for St. Venedict. But you can see that Candelia's mom only needed my money.

And the worst part is, Chema doesn't love me anymore either.







So nothing bad happens to him. Even though he doesn't love me.





















Don't be afraid, Chema, that money my dad made fair and square at the last race.



































His wife died shortly before that, the boy was very young.












































Very. But now I feel a lot more comfortable knowing that he's gonna be looked after by someone.


















# This beautiful morning we came to welcome you


♪ It's already dawning ♪ The light of the new day is on.





































Lord, I thank you for making me the instrument of your world. I ask thee, O Lord, that my humble work pass into holy and skilled hands, and that thou mayest give me strength to carry out my new mission far from here.
















Chema! Dinner's ready.











I'm in a position where I have to do my duty, no matter what it takes.










































And to live in peace, I need to send you to Teresa's mom and her wife.



You're not gonna be so cute.

















I know you and José Maria are big friends, and he's telling you everything, right?














- Have a good trip, Padre. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.









Have a safe journey. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

I'm leaving with a calm soul knowing that everything remains in good hands.



















Space, the final frontier.

It's a five-year mission to explore new worlds to find new life and new civilizations to go where no man's leg has yet gone.


Objective: To confirm the discovery by Dr. Thomas Layton of a new unusual synthetic food that could put an end to the threat of famine on Signia Miner, a colony near Earth.



You said you found a new food concentrate.





















Jim, I need your help.



























He's been on official duty for the last nine years.
















We're ready to leave orbit.












My father would be very happy, Mr....?
























I think I'd be happy to.

















You're not the captain of a ship who needs to be strong and confident in front of all these people.




At least his soul is calm now.
























- Bridge speaking, Captain. Transporter room, I'm ready to board.
We're ready to resume course, Captain.












Captain, I'm afraid we need your help.






We need a good Samaritan more than ever.

































































































- She's very old.
Almost as old as the stars themselves.















































- Unfortunately, he wasn't the first.
























- So you were a bad boy?













































The lab report indicates that there is a large amount of tetrabibyl, a special lubricant used on this ship.
























- even my first assistant. - Jim,














































































Everything's ready for the test.

"The revolution has been successful, but survival requires strong measures.
































Beautiful words, well played. But it doesn't change anything.

















But later I wanted it to be something bigger.






































I'm ready.




























Today, after my performance, the last two that could hurt you will disappear forever.




That's what I had to do.
I needed them to shut up.





We'll be ready.





















I had to do something, something terrible.













- Guards. - You can't take away his father's last performance.






















We're ready to leave Benitia's orbit, Captain.



- When you're ready, Mr. Leslie.























- Tall, active, handsome.




He was checking out a cadet old Jay-class starship.





















Space, the final frontier.

A five-year mission to explore unknown worlds, seek a new life, and unexplored civilizations.














Who would have sent us here?





































































Be ready. We'll be out of orbit in an hour.





































































Why would Jim need a vacation for treatment?

































































































































Mr. Spock, by pleading guilty, do you realize that you are facing the death penalty on a new charge if the ship reaches the planet Talos?










I'll explain why it's so important to get to Talos 4.






































We're getting an old-fashioned distress signal.






























Okay. I'm glad to hear that. We'll make a stop at Vega Colony and leave everyone who needs to be hospitalized there.



What makes you think I need this?


















And are you ready to listen to me and take a vacation?
I'm ready to resign.

First thing to do is go home.



























































Sorry, First Officer, we don't know much about the planet.











The temporary barrier has been overcome. Our new ships...










It's a beautiful sample.
I didn't get the last message, Captain.




If you'll just give me a minute, I'm ready to report on my state of health.

They're all in good health, even too healthy.
And it wasn't an accident. But we weren't sure if the grounders were ready to know our secret.












There's no survivors camp, first mate.















If necessary, take the ship out of service by preventing contact.





































Space, the final frontier.

A five-year mission to explore unknown worlds, seek a new life, and unexplored civilizations.




















I've never seen such a terrible build-up of old architecture.




















































We're not gonna hurt you, honey.


















































That's a nice name. For a beautiful girl.

Very beautiful.















- It's a bad place. It's important.
























To deal with viruses, I need better equipment than that.



The volunteers are ready to come to your aid.




















































So they can tell them what's good and what's bad.























Could be old.






She may not be so beautiful.




If they're old, as Spock says, they need to know what's going on.

We're dealing with kids, though incredibly old.





















































This man's been making notes in the last few weeks after the trouble.
I didn't take the last one into account.



In a while, we'll all go crazy. We're gonna kill each other, and the last one is ourselves.















Of course, it's the first symptoms.
It's gonna get worse.
















They wanted to create a number of new diseases. A chain reaction of viruses capable of prolonging the life of a human cell to an infinity.




























I feel so bad, Captain.




Last slide. I couldn't make the calculations.


















She's always asking me about the smallest little ones.










































































Or bat-bat, bad kid.




























Bad citizen.



- Baz-bat, if you're bad!





We need them to communicate with the ship.


















Bad big guys!














- And the smallest...























































































































Incredible, as it may seem, dear boy, I think the child, uh, Dorothy...

...uh, uh, yeah, of course, my dear...































What does that prove? Well, that's what I'm trying to figure out, dear boy.

That's right, my dear.





















Yeah, yeah, it's incredible, dear boy, but maybe, of course, it's possible.


Oh, be well, my dear.









Yes, you must, my dear.

Now, I suggest we have one last look around and, uh, put you to bed.






























Okay, then you're right-- they need to be questioned.















No reason, except the more we see here, the less this place looks like Earth.











Yeah, yeah. What do they look like, sweet boy?























































































The Daleks - but it all happened in the first segment of time.






















































Here's the design.



















































































He needs a doctor.















He left the field first.


































































We need a doctor.


























Yes. We need clean water to clean the wound.







































There could be more.



















But it's very small.













I'm glad you're here, Sergeant.




















































Ready, sir.

Ah, all those beautiful strong mountains.





































































































He's a fine, strong young man.















Of course, I regret any inconvenience you and your fine companions face directly.




















Now the only law for you is me, sweetheart.







































The matches. Oh, it doesn't matter.
(Kirsty comes to the little chest and opens it.) The matches. Oh, it doesn't matter.
(Kirsty comes to the little chest and opens it.) Now we're keeping a supply of food here. (Kirsty comes to the little chest and opens it.)
(Kirsty comes to the little chest and opens it.) Oh, there's only one wheat biscuits. (Kirsty comes to the little chest and opens it.)



























Yeah, and we need the right clothes.










It's beautiful.






























Something like, "It's an old body that's out of order."
And did he get a new one?



































Legs need to grow up.

























































It's beautiful!

















Yeah, the other two were pretty full of pairs-- the girl's pretty bad.




































We can use the old missile room, can't we?








But it's important.

Look, a little polish and it's like a new one.


























I've been worse, Governor.


































































































































































































































My dear young man...





























You may know where you are, my dears, but not when!

























It's an old-fashioned 1966.














And you came by road instead of by sea?






Well, he's the one we need.

































































Oh, it's nothing, it's nothing, my dear man.

















Go your way.



























Thank you so much, and I think everything's gonna be okay now.










There's a case-- a message for the Chief needs to be delivered tonight.
































Yes, sir, and you're gonna need some dry clothes in the morning?


And I think I'm gonna be able to dry myself off at that beautiful place.






Yeah, I think it's even better now, my dear.





Oh, listen to our little Duchess!
Oh, ch, ch, ch, watch your tongue, my dear boy.


Oh, thank you very much.





I'm afraid so, my dear.









Well, this cute old pub isn't right anyway.




Well, I wouldn't worry too much about it, my dear, because I don't think we're gonna be here long enough to find out!
Oh, rob the big ships in every sea!


It's good to see the old swim buddy again, huh, Joe?


But not forgotten, just like your old friends, Joe.






















Isn't Joe my old friend?





























I think we're gonna be better off when old buddies get hooked up.










The old rough neck?























I need to tell you.






I need you, old buddy.






















What I need is what he told him, so say it, old man!
























He's really bad, isn't he, this guy?























He needs to be tied up.






























You'll find that he likes a little conversation with a great gentleman like you.






Big man in there, this is Squire.




I told your young friend I needed information.






















But before he died, he talked to that old bag of bones.




I suppose you know where we are, my dear.






Oh, well, you see, the problem is that we're back in the 20th century, my dear, and the TARDIS is often taken for a real police booth here.












Looks good to me. Old, good London fig.





























It's probably not the biggest computer in the world, but it's the most advanced.









Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, of course, my dear comrade. - Hey, Dodo?































- What's he saying, my dear?









What is it, my dear? Are you okay?












Polly will take care of you. - Is this your first time in London?



What I really need is to go to the hottest night establishment in town.







Polly, you're the one I need.


















Oh, I must have made a great impression.








- Is that so bad?
- Even worse!











I have a great sense of humor. I'm laughing at everything.

- Come on, honey. I know your type.
You'd better spend time with me than the old one.



















I have to tell you that this is a big step forward for the UK and for the whole world.



- Sir, doesn't that give too much power to the man who's gonna run the VOTAN?

























I have to go. I'm already late for an important meeting. Good night.













































I'm sure there must be something very important that prevented him from appearing...
















Thank you so much for your time.


I'm really glad you could make it.




Who was the little man, Krympton?































































There's nothing more important than human life.












What does he want here?



















There's one specific human brain that WOTAN needs.























































You're the last.




































Allah is Great!




























At the right moment, she'll hand you the gun.















Go first.











To join us, we have to complete the task.






That's what matters.







First of all, we should organize and secure our shelters.

The organization gets stronger, but it's still full of drunks, whores, narcs, people willing to talk, people ready to sell.








This is the first step towards independence.






































This is your last warning.













- Fine.




















































There have been many attacks all over the city in recent days.





















































Good night, Mommy.
Good night, kids.









Good night, everyone.


































































































































I deliberately took the footage taken shortly before the latest terrorist attacks.



















They form the first triangle.









A lot more important is the police side.












































































Ali, you first.






































































































- We don't need a war.





















































Last day of the strike











































Build a new Algeria with us.















We must resist from the bottom of our lives without giving the enemy a chance to catch us.


















Section one is dead.













Isn't it a lot of cowardice to throw defenseless napalm villages that kill thousands of times more?





The paratroopers were looking for a less important man.














According to his stated intention to save himself at the earliest opportunity, a prisoner must be held tied to his arms and feet at all times.








































































We need a written promise of a fair trial.















































































Hassiba first, then Mahmoud.
















It's all set.























- All set?





































According to Paris, a large part of the political class would like to build a new relationship with Algeria.

Last day of statements





We need our freedom!



Are you okay?

























What's the worst thing about pilgrims, poverty. Why don't they do anything to stop them? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,



What do you want?

You came at the right time.




I just need a crust of bread.











Oh, beautiful fruit grows on this fig tree!













Good to see you again, I want to thank you for not telling Master Mateo about me.

































I need four lumberjacks!


And the old Chef Catalai's wash with good food?











































The boy's right, my friend, we need workers and we don't have a choice.









But I need lumberjacks.
You've already got what you need.

You just said it's worth four men, so you don't need these other guys.














I brought you a new lumberjack.
A new lumberjack?









Don't worry if he's in a bad mood sometimes.


















































If you want it enough, you'll catch him soon, Cotolay, unless Dimo catches him first.


















He's in a bad mood.













Look, if I need your help, look!























Good night, Cotolay.



















Brothers, how little your faith is, if the Lord will, it will be built, and I believe it will be!












































































Our monastery must be small and poor.







I'd like a new monastery in a really happy place.
Yeah, but it's gonna be more expensive.
It's not gonna be a problem, if it's true, what they're talking about is the big treasure hidden here.











I also saw that our little monastery would be in a happy place, as Kotolay said.



















































What you need to do is forget about this treasure forever.















Very well, I will lie to my beautiful young man!





















I came to talk to Francisco, and I'm glad I did.
























Oh, my darling.
















Maybe one day, and you'll pay for it...














I think if you want to talk to someone very important, you have to bring something to be well received.


Who knocked? What do you want?






































Anyway, I need some land.

I need you to build a convent.

















Do you need so little?
Yeah, that's all I need.







What do you want?




























































Someone important?

Beautiful promise, but how are you gonna make it happen?





I'm ready, you can talk.







No, you don't.





Don't lose hope, Kotolay, the important thing is you now have land for our monastery.


No, Cotolay, this land will always belong to Benedictines, they can freely force us to leave this place if they think it's right.













That's what I need-- rocks.
Oh, you need them for the horn?

I need these, these are big.
I don't know exactly how much I need, but...



Yeah, he's growing a fig tree, just beautiful.











These are big.



I've seen a lot, more than I need to build a monastery.




Oh, huh, now I know all this running around. And let me tell you one thing: if you want stones, go to the quarry and pay for them.

Look, maybe you could give me some rocks in exchange for something important.











I agree. Go to the Brigadier and tell him to give you as many stones as you need for your monastery.

























Okay, boy, this is your lucky day.



















































































Everyone says you have a terrible temper, but I don't think if it were true, you wouldn't have built such a beautiful gallery for this apostle's house.









They say she's ready, but you don't want to reveal it because you're afraid.







Although maybe I'll be that old.






































Juan is ready and waiting.












I'm small, aren't I?

We need his help hand.










































The younger brother should always be the last one to come.

Well, I felt happy at the thought of your victory, because I know how much you put in it.














The monastery is as big as Santiago Cathedral!












Your name will always be etched on my heart, Cotolay, I will never forget... because you made it possible to build the first monastery of my charter.

















I'm really glad you made it,




But the worst lies ahead,









































Commander Jackson and his team are ready to leave.





437, program ready for immediate launch,










We're ready to launch.







Ready, let's go.

Commander Rod Jackson. An experienced cosmonaut returns to Gamma 1 by taking the deflector with him and receiving an order for the most important mission in his career.
Here she is, Good Old Gamma 1, do you hear us, Gamma?




Ready and waiting,















ANNOUNCEMENT: Recent news from Earth for all space bases

Many large cities have been exposed to various atmospheric phenomena.
Because of the record number of floods that flooded most of the land, many cities were forced to evacuate the population...













Are we ready for Joe?

We're almost ready to start,
Start when you're ready.








Everybody ready for transmission?














































Be patient, Terry, sometimes the commander needs to be tough to hide his limitations,






The film shows the extent of new destruction of coastal installations after strange seismograph indicators



We need an explanation for this asteroid behavior.
To solve this issue, my team did a really important job, and I want my colleague,




































I wasn't ready for this, so I ordered everyone back in as quickly as possible.
























































Poor old Rod,




I, I have a wife and a little kid down there,































































I'm not sure I'm happy to continue with the news show,










































This is the last statement of the DO.
The next transmission will take place in an hour and a half, or sooner in case we have new information.

The last thing we heard from him was about Echo's base,





















Gamma 1 we need help.













Captain Anderson is listening. I need full intelligence. Squad's in 10 minutes.
And I mean ready in every sense.








You're gonna want the following:


























Lieutenant Peters, we need all armed ships.


I need a deflector and all the firepower we have,
























Captain, in a little while, Commander will be ready for a free fall along with the crew and the equipment.
We are one and a half hours away from the place, and the entrance to the field of gravity which will give them a new direction.







































The last blow hit him.



















I need a full report on what was done during the mission that you have to carry out.


We're in big trouble right now, and I was hoping to fix it, General,






Commander Jackson and team, we're ready to give you the coordinates as well as the cargo you'll be flying to Echo base.











Ready for weightlessness,


A small space body about 400,000 miles away from Phoebe on the same line as Arcus.








All units ready for departure, sir.















We're ready.
If you don't need me, sir.


We don't need to be introduced to each other, do we?










It looks like a big asteroid.


































It's a big violation.



He left with the last ship.















Jackson's too concerned about this new threat. I haven't quite figured it out yet. The Echo base looks like it's gone.


















I'm very glad to see you,





All charges ready.

























We need more power, Mac,







































It's all ready. I'm going in.









What's the new helium head?









It's a serious game with a big bet--
















Then we'll have to find a suitable place to lay the charge,
When it's done, we're gonna have to get out of there and fast.
















Looks like we need to get in there.











Despite his small size, his gravitational field is not only capable of bringing down Lob's base.








































































































































The first one on the surface was a black and white helmet.


















Now everything's ready for anti-matter release,


















































































































































































































































You're not the first, you're not the last.











































I'm glad for you, your head isn't right.
If only you knew how happy I am.





































































Happy you, Tom, it's all just you, come on.





































If one evil is remembered, you will never be happy before God.

Maybe some things need to be forgotten, not all of them.





Remember the New Testament!






















And all the troubles are coming on a man.



























































































































I was the one who said it was hot, not Sergei.















It's been two months since everything's ready, and nothing's ready, itchy, idle.
How much money has been requested, and they're idle, nothing's ready."





























It's the last thing I've ever seen.



Maybe I'm old, I'm out of my mind.










How can you cut them? It's beautiful.





















































Easy, beautiful.















































We're gonna build a choir for the little brother.















































































When was the last time you made up?






It's not a small town.





















































































Only I'm worse now than you are.































- No one needs it.




































It's beautiful, though!












































































































You're worse!











- It's worse for him.





















If you need me, you call me.







- Isn't it bad clay? - Bad.





Look how much clay we've found, how much work we've put in, where we've found a new place, and you...











I don't need those!

I don't need those!






































































































What a beautiful, smooth...






































The second and third furnaces are ready!
The first one will be ready soon.
Come on, everybody's ready!

It's all set.



































I wouldn't lie, then in my filthy soul, deep down, the little joy moved.



























- What do you got? - It's all set!

- Everybody ready?


























Father, the beast is old, never told a secret.









































- Hey, old man!
Why do you need me?















- Look, old man, what a gesheft!











Bad deal. I'm poor, I don't have enough money...
You old bastard!
















And with a new spring wind when... when..."











- Bravo! Yes, but first we need a knight who is brave, handsome, but who has no land, no wealth...




- Where? Let's go to Chivita, there's a big tournament tonight and a lot of knights!











- Are you sure this is the guy we need?



















Also, old man, knock it on your nose:






In the first battle, there will be a Gryphon called Manunt and Brancaleone from Norch.

























Are you ready to fall in the mortal battle?
Walking for days, weeks, months long... it's the only way we can win the castles, the wealth, and the women with the big tits!

























- Feofylact from Leonzi. From the famous Byzantine family, the descendant of Nikifor First.



















- Ready?

















We're gonna need a ransom with gold and we're gonna split it. And then everyone goes their own way.





















You're free and free to do whatever you want! Go your way and don't get in our way again.














- Abaquk, you're the last one.


























































Come on, old man, move!












But I'm happy...






















































Beautiful!







- Why don't you go first?





Okay, you, Abaquk! You weigh little, you go first.










"The dyke is our way, but his purpose is great...


























I'm old!











- Then let him go first.
























































- Sword! Are you all right?








































I've always wanted to marry a tall, strong... handsome... just like you!


































- What are you talking about? - You have to go your way.




We're gonna make a lot of kids for Brancaleone's new castle.
I will be your faithful wife, and you are a fine husband, because I see that you love me as much as I love you.




























"And her sweetheart helped her..."


I've been ready for a long time. Too much. Come on, hurry up!









Guccione is a dirty bastard, but he'll be the first to tear this flower apart.
- Maybe not the first...



Come on. Come with me, my lovely bride.



































































Help the old one.



































What did I do to her?






















I'm old, I'm gonna get killed! I need to sleep well, eat and drink well, and do nothing.














Mathilde will be your last word in life!





















We're gonna start a new life, we're gonna have a bunch of kids like you wanted.





You made a big mistake.

































Who are they? The last princes of Byzantine.

















































- Bad Byzantine! Get it!
Bad!

Do you like it? - Beautiful birth!
















































































You found a great way not to walk with us, you old fox.
























Now he's happy...





















We're glad you finally came.




- Wine is beautiful.






















Takcone, you're gonna be "primus miles." (*first fighter lat.....................................

And for you, Zito *, with great respect, I have good news for you.

















That's what we need!






















































Beautiful ending...


















































































The last shipment will arrive by train on Wednesday at seven o'clock.



























- Yeah, first door to the right.


Monsieur, I need a quota for foreigners.







You don't have to. I'm the one who sent you that note.






















He must have consulted you in the recruitment of new agents.




















This is my last hole.











































































I'm his new secretary.




- Do you have a new secretary?






























































Good to see you.
My dear Margery, how have you been... since the Clifford case?











Suvi, darling, we must have confused the day.










































































We have to do everything we can to avoid the worst.










Last month's report?




I don't know, something new, I don't know anything about it.
















- Good for you.
Your last microfilm is still in Vienna.





All the worse if he's a professional.








































































I thought you and your friend would enjoy the safety that was so expensive.
I thought so, but today I'd rather believe the opposite, because there's a new player in this party.

He's the kind of guy who gets what he needs.




































No, nothing new yet.



















I'll start with him. He's the most important link.



You, Kern, be ready on my orders on 4th gear to the border.





Make up a new dance or something.




























































Tell him you have new information.






















And a little key to the suitcase.


















We also found... a small key.




Margariten Strass, 7, 1st floor, Waigelt's lawyer's apartment.






















He said the less Paris knows about me... the better.




















It's the first time I've heard of him.












They'll be safer in your hands right now.



Wait for me at the first station after the Italian border.
































They sent the telegram themselves that everything was ready.



Do you have any claims about our first deal?





















Anything important?



















































The perpetrator is on the path of the greatest resistance.
























































You need an autogen, you need an autogen, you need an autogen... it's such a stunt...









could poison any happy life.



Come on, you're standing, lunch's ready, get my hands off me.


























We're building a new folk theater today.













- I'm very happy!


An actor who doesn't get paid will play with a lot of inspiration.














I need a recorder overseas, American or German.











- We need to find out, bring it in.

We need to hold...
























































































Modern, I'd say a new type of criminal.


























- So small.



























































































































































Battery's hooked up. A thousand times I've been asked by my superiors to put me on a new motorcycle.
Yeah... with an old battery, it's not life.











































I warned you. With an old battery, it's not life.
I've always been afraid of that. It's gonna be a big job, and he's gonna fail.
Here! They didn't put me on a new motorcycle.







































But it's new?
- Absolutely new.


































You have to marry an orphan!


















































He betrayed the most precious thing-- friendship!



I'm fine... is everything okay at home?













































Tell me, is there anything new about the car?














Yes, dear spectator, Detchkin didn't take any money.




I didn't sell the first car.



































































































































Aren't you ready again?

















Baby's not just a thief. He's worse!











Finally, the court called Maxim Poberezowikov's most important witness.














Defendant, you have the last word.





























- I've been ready for an hour.





















































































































































































You know, a lot of girls would love to get into my lens for money.


And then, on this tape, I need the pictures.


No, I need the tape now.
































I need to.




































Why? Is it bad?







What's the last one?




She's so peaceful and calm.

































And by the way, I need them myself.




















Sorry, honey, my girlfriend doesn't want to talk to you.






































It's okay, handsome.




















































































Oh, hello, darling.













































Nice family.
























Well, you don't have to worry.

Yeah, yeah, fine.

















Do you know that your face is so beautiful that they'll pay $2,000 for it?




















I think I'm sick.









































































...the robbery on the big roads, the robbery of an unknown number of post offices...























I'm so glad he got caught... he's guilty of such crimes.






































I'll hang my thumbs!












Sweet dreams and thank you very much!


Honey.



What do you want from me?

























































Very bad, friends.





































Don't make any noise, old chicken.






















Too big for your neck, huh?



























Even worse.
























Another hundred miles of beautiful, sun-dry sand.














That's not so bad.


























Nice to meet you, Carson.












































































































Okay, it doesn't matter.




















































If I knew it was my last hour, I swear... if I were you, I'd do the same.



















The van's ready to go.
















I'm so happy.

Yeah, well, it was really nice to see you.



It's more important than that.

















































Even a tramp like me, no matter what happens, I know there's a brother somewhere who's never gonna say no to me in a bowl of soup.
































































For the last time, Sergeant... I'm telling you, I want the prisoners treated like prisoners.






































I never forget old friends, Tuco.

It's good to see old friends again.



























You might as well think you're happier than your buddy.




















































Last time I tell you, if I ever drop you, you're gonna need a lot of help getting up again. Come on.











































I'm here with your old friend Angel Eyes.






Blondie! I'm really glad you're working with me and we're back together.






It doesn't matter.







I need blondie alive.
























































Names don't matter.










The whole thing was what the Suzhans wanted, and we need a whole lot of it, too.

Is it bad to say that to volunteers?
I've done a lot worse than that.





















Company B is ready!
Company E is ready!
Company "D" is ready!























Yeah. And if I get killed, you'll never get all that cute money.






You first.













































Well, that's... that sounds like old times.
















55 years later, in December 1964, the world premiere of his last film, "The Gertrudes", took place in Paris.















He made only a few films, but everyone was an important page in film history.













The first is the script, the second is the selection of actors.



In my first film, "President", I sought simplicity, especially in the set.




They were very beautiful paintings.
I insisted that old people's characters be played by old actors with their own beards.









Not far from Berlin, we had to recreate a little Russia.











The distinguishing features of these aquarels were small, stylized houses in the back and front plans and people of normal, realistic sizes.















Looking through the first test footage, we found a scene shot like it was in the fog. A mixture of shades of gray and white.































It meant that I had to be more careful about the composition of the frame because it changed every second.








In the old Borgen room, there was only a portrait of Grundtwig, a barometer, and an old watch.
There was also a big kitchen that I wanted to simplify, and I managed to do it.
You can't simplify reality without understanding it first, so I asked the woman in the studio dining room to organize the kitchen as if it were her own, so that she'd be comfortable with it.











That's the worst thing you could have done.
Worst thing?

She's a nice girl.









































Fight to the last soldier and to the last child.

We urgently need an experienced military consultant.



Why do you give yourself up to this crazy war... for a small country that is about to be destroyed?




Last time I was at the temple... when I was 13 years old, I read a speech and I got forty-two pence.



































































































We're the first foreign soldiers they see.






Thank you, Colonel Marcus. Nice bouquet.




I got four messages from the Pentagon ordering you to go home as soon as possible.










































Emma, let's... start a new life right now.



















































Michael. Mike, it's so good to see you.





























It doesn't matter, you won't.
















In the Negev desert, Egyptian tanks are ready to turn to our border.



Our convoy was attacked, we suffered a great deal of casualties.













I'm not sure you need that information.





You know so much about me that you'll remember how I was here at the end of the last war.



But we need to organize and plan the battles.













I understand the Palmah leaders are ready to attack?





What have you been doing for the last 50 years?


































The first shot is warning. If you don't listen, the second round will follow in exactly ten seconds.






















You're an important person.



I hope you're enjoying this little trip.













Good weapons, big planes.







I have to take the battalion and release the first concentration camp I've met.




















































My people say there's an old Bedouin living in the valley. He allegedly heard the Americans sending us a great soldier.






























He's an old friend of my father's.





















- What answer do you want?


































Good night.






It's stupid to attack one unit. They've got a lot of artillery,


















- How bad?

- I need another consultant.



He won't survive the first two thousand if he doesn't follow the instructions.















We need to throw a brick out the window and take everything we need.
















We'd have a little internecine war if we hadn't been Arabs.




It's a very important case.










It is especially important to visit Jerusalem, the most dangerous area.




The Mediterranean will become one big boiling pot.






There, they are needed more than the Bible.

























My family says chickens are worth more than gold.




We need everyone.









































I think she needs me more than you do.































No one here wants me.






























I'm so glad you came.





































- Beautiful tan, Colonel.











No nation would risk being the first to admit... a helpless government like theirs.






Look, Mike. Do you think America recognizes the new state when it is proclaimed?






I'm glad you came to your senses and left before it's too late.




People fight with their bare hands... for a little bit of desert, a place where they could live.


























It doesn't matter, we're happy to see you.








If Moses comes again, Palm will rise up against him, so that the Lord God will have great problems.



A new type of foreign legion.



We're happy to see you in any condition.






We also received a message that the United Nations is prepared to reconsider its decision of November 29 on our independence.


"The United States of America is pleased to be the first to welcome... the new State of Israel...













I heard you were here, but you're important, you have time... only for ministers. Mickey...













































- What do we got? - Your old friend Joseph...



















The last refuge of the rebels against the Romans.















Vince once used liquor bottles in New Guinea.



























Mickey, there's gonna be a big disaster.
















What does Jerusalem matter to us? With a weapon?
















I don't know about miracles, but the last aluf mentioned in the Bible was Jesus.


You don't want to be the first General of the Israeli Army in 2,000 years?




















We've already lost 600 men in the first fight.












































Ready?


The buses had problems, but now we're all ready.































































Big losses?







We need mortars.







They don't need a general anymore.





Immigrants were the worst.










Do you know how important this is?










The first time you said "we."

















Aluf Stone. An old friend came to see you.






























And there's an old line here that... you can't see from Latrun.






























- I hope it's the worst prophet.






















The rock is very big.


























But last night, the last precinct was finished, and now I can drive by myself.









































It doesn't matter what's in the back.





































Your husband fell in the mountains under Jerusalem last night. Last victim before the truce.


























Listen, Jose, when was the last time we saw you?






































Look, man, I'm not that old.


































We'll have a beautiful day.









































































































Hunting like everything else, big fish eating small fish.



































Everybody ready?


I'm ready.














































It shouldn't be so bad here... it's been alone for a year and nobody's bothering you.
















It's all set, Uncle.


Did you see what a beautiful receiver?
Listen, Uncle Don José, the one who's the oldest, the owner of all this?






























I'll give you the first prey.





























































Do I look like I'm old to them?"

















I took her out of the village because she was much worse out there.



















Things haven't been going very well lately.


































Look, Uncle, what a beautiful picture.















Come on, it's not a big resemblance.







Not bad. Not bad at all.











Not bad.



















































You're the first person I show it to.










I need the money.



We always need protection, help.








































"This one's not bad at all.



- We need some loaf of bread.







































































If you had a little time to take care of yourself, you'd be the most beautiful.









And the last detail.





































They'll capture us and form a new civilization.




But before they do, they're gonna have a big war on the rats.












































- "I need some fresh air.









"Your skin is old and dry.













"He's willing to do anything for money.
































This is the worst decision ever.





You're here for everything!































If you're ready, Don José.








They're ready!






"In the hallways of his house, a great beast pursues him.



















She was so little...
















































Is he really that bad?
It's the worst.



































Last time I was in the driver's seat two years ago...














































- I'm glad you care.
























Sorry to keep you waiting, Mr. Sam. Bad sign.

























Good to see you.










You have a beautiful wife, Mr. Rogers.































































All set?






Thank you very much, I...

































































- I will, darling. I pray for everyone.





- Thank you very much.

























It's brand-new.





- Turn around, darling.



Where's Calder, I need to talk to him.






































This is the last place in the world that Bubber wants to go back to.


Good night.
Good night, Ruby.




















Honey, didn't we order this sign? Isn't it,
- Honey? - No, it's a helicopter.


































Please, I have to go.




































I was honored to give Rogers College $500,000 from Mr. Crane... to build a women's dormitory.



Thank you, thank you very much.

























































































Look, go get my stuff, darling.








I need a partner. Honey, let's dance.

Honey, how about you?

Mary, Mary, honey, you're drunk... no one will dance with you when you're drunk.







Honey, don't worry about it.









Stop staring at little girls.
Do you like young girls, darling?



Don't you like little girls?
























I don't want your gun.




































Looks like everyone likes to change partners these days, darling.
Mrs. Bridge and I are, of course, old-fashioned...

























He doesn't drink with the poor, darling...






All you need is a gun and a deal.







































Even when you were little...
I have a present for you... open it, darling.








You were the first to get married!




























He's coming here, he needs help.
He needs help now... he's gonna need money... I like Buber, Jack.


















































We need a sheriff like that.










We need to think of something, we need to go to the club, we need to dance.



























Glad you're patrolling the streets.




Come on, darling.















































And no matter what he did, he's our son.




















































































































































































































































































































































































I need a car.
















- I have to go...






















































