- Name?
Name?
Name?
What's your name? ..
What's the fucking name? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
Your name.
We can't leave the old names, can we?
You can't have that name.
It's a nigger name.
We need to pick some meaningful names.
If I were a girl, I'd take a name... say, Hope.
Then Bob Hope. Here and then there's the word game with the names. Here : Hope...................................... - Hope.......................................
What's your name?
The Korean name is John Meyer of the M-Kim Bong Gu Club.
What's your name?
That's a good name.
Lee Seo Rim's funeral... so her name is Lee Seo Rim after all?
Oh, my God... what's your name, Kim Eun Oo? You'll never get your mother back.
Isimod Gacky is my name. This time, my journey is bound to be a success.
I need a man named Miyamoto Musashi.
- What kind of fight do you fight? - Gangru. I got the same name.
My question may seem unexpected to you. Have you ever known a man named Miyamoto Musashi?
You don't need a good name.
What's her name?
I didn't hear your name.
I can't tell you the name.
How do you know my name?
Every time I saw your name, I wanted to pick up the phone.
Neal, how do you kick his ass and don't ask him a name?
Your name.
And I'm not gonna say their names right now because it doesn't matter now.
According to my records, your name is Vera.
I'll take him and apologize on behalf of both of them.
Do you have a name?
Go forward, for God is on our side, in the name of Romania's independence. Carl.
"I am not God, nor can I be the devil, or the tree, with contempt I pronounce your name!
"I am not God, nor can I be the devil, or the tree, with contempt I pronounce your name!
"I am not God, nor can I be the devil, or the tree, with contempt I pronounce your name!
In the name of love for you, I'm willing to sacrifice anything.
They had names like candy, and all that sounded like baby candy.
The main female role and central role of the painting, the role of Mummy, was given to a young and charming Polish girl who recently arrived in Berlin by the name of Paula Negri.
In the name of the King!
In the name of the King!
In the name of the King!
Send me Lieutenant Armand de Fua. Tie his eyes off and don't tell him my name. Countess Duberry.
I married on your behalf.
"In the name of the cross and the wounds of the Lord!
"In the name of the Holy Trinity, weep if you don't think you're a witch!
"Your name?
A man named Hutter lived in Wisborg with his young wife, Helen.
...and she gave me the name of the killer.
Their names are already being announced in the church, and the wedding will be held this month!"
When you asked me to read your names with Berit in the church, you said you were both getting married in good faith.
Don't you have an easier name?
We don't get names like people.
My name, my house, my mom and dad.
My name.
In the name of Duke Red in Metropolis, the military regime is declared.
In the name of Duke Red in Metropolis, the military regime is declared.
"You mention Julie's name again and I'll kill you!"
"Nicky, what's next?" "I bet your name's a mile long!"
"In the name of God, don't leave me alone!"
On behalf of the Mineapol Rotary Club...
In the name of... it's Himmelstos.
- But where, in the name of...
You know his name and number?
Write down the names and addresses.
I'll change my name... or something...
- Your name? - Lydia Pinkham.
And I assure you, Mr. Henrio, that all the underwear sales staff of Henrio and Ko, on whose behalf I speak, are proud of this award in recognition of your fearless efforts.
And since you won't be able to use a famous name, you'll only get a little change.
And Lulu? Lulu is not a name.
"To pay on demand," now my name, now your name, date.
In fact, I was captured in Germany under the name of a dead friend.
Got the name of the dead man.
He even stole it on his behalf.
You're talking about me abstaining, but I can give you the names of your bootleggers.
What are your names?
There was a sister by the name of 'lo nar nar................................................
"Glory be to your name, your kingdom come.
What names you give things.
- His name is death!
- Open it in the name of the law!
Arsen Lupin, in the name of the law, I'll arrest you!
I left a name here to remember.
Throw me leaves and tell my mom I died with her name on her lips.
- Your name?
But that's not my name.
My name isn't Smith, so I'm in the same position.
He didn't have to come up with a name for me when I started.
- His name is Mr Townsend?
I don't even know your name.
Why don't you call me by my name?
Call by name.
Did your name scare you so much?
Just a girl named Joan Prentiss.
It's time you knew Joan wasn't gonna talk to you, no matter what name you came up with.
That's a weird name.
Last spring a woman named Hazel looked after the house.
Her name is Vivien Rivier.
She could have registered under a different name.
She took another name and doesn't even let the baby walk.
How are you, Mr. Spencer? [Chuckles]
She registered under Mrs. Killroy's name.
This car belongs to a guy named Kirkwood. He's a well-known lawyer in town.
Did you know that your wife's real name is Mary Keaton, not Mary Bernard?
But do you know that under the name Mary Keaton, she served her sentence in a correctional facility for theft?
And when I heard your name and realized that you were one of us...
- Do you know my first name?
Speaking on behalf of the board of directors and my own, I can say that if... you insist that in times like this... cut the board's salary, we resign.
Speaking on behalf of Madame Kole, as from your own... resign.
Leave them in the name of Ignacio Fernandez.
Glory be to our Lord. Let us pray for the salvation of her soul. In the name of God and the angels of heaven.
There's an evil man whose name is Murder.
Make up a beautiful name for your baby.
The name Trenholm will save us.
You'll want to change your name.
Remember when I interpreted the letters about a guy named Herbert Smart?
- A little girl named Fanny Bridges.
- My name is Joe.
Didn't you know someone named Joe when you were a little girl?
I forgot to ask your name.
As host of this welcoming meeting, I congratulate you on behalf of all the inhabitants of Fridonia!
On behalf of all the inhabitants of Fridonia, I am ready to embrace you!
On behalf of the women of Friedonia... this is the last time I'm trying to prevent a war.
- Would you like to keep your name?
- Of course, it's got my name on it.
You know a girl named Joan Gale?
I only know a man named Worth.
The only thing I did was follow a man named Worth.
Dr. Bomb gives his name for our fiction.
I will not allow my name to be the water we supply to schools.
I'm not gonna let my name become a symbol of corruption.
We need a scientist whose knowledge and name we can use.
Not only will I make a substantial profit from the chemical formula you'll develop, but I'll also use your name in a commercial slogan.
Doesn't he know you sold tap water to the whole country under his name and with his approval?
I know your name.
He finds a job as a chemist under the name...
Professor August A. Topaz, professor, scientist and author, for your diligence, for your research, for your work for the benefit of society as head of Latura Lab, I, Henri de Ferville, on behalf of the Republic,
Your shares in this company are in the name of your wife.
In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
Name: Barbara.
Don't you dare mention the name of this wicked young man in front of Cousin Ezra.
Don't call me that name.
- Okay, P. That's your middle name, isn't it?
Girls, you won't remember their names, will you?
This name has notes that keep playing.
I say your name over and over again, and the music goes through my soul.
Oh, for God's sake!
If you prefer to see Martel's name on the front page of the papers, it's your will.
Who knows a name like that?
- What's your name?
Shapeley's my name, and that's the reason I like it.
You have a name, don't you?
Yeah, I got a name.
There's no girl here with that name.
- What's your name?
What's your name?
Is that his name?
- What, in the name of...
After Winant's murder, he called McCawley on his behalf...
I didn't mention your name.
- Oh, that jaguar's a cellist? What's his name? - His name?
Your name on the poster, the fountain mansion and the doorman at the entrance...
His name lives in my heart.
By the way, may I have your name?
- What's his name?
He's got a dozen names and more than a hundred faces.
Mr. 3 was your name.
Can I call you a real name?
Get used to your new name. That's it." Mr. and Mrs. Henry Hopkinson, Hollyhox, Hammersmith.
Her name is Tremont.
Better, I'll tell you without names.
'Cause our untouchable name could get into the papers.
In the name of the law.
- Anybody named Ralph West?
No name.
The telegrapher at the station said there were a lot of telegrams in Mr. Charles' name.
You want to disappoint my name?
The only girl we have to treat softly... and you put her name on the front page! What?
- Remember that name, Graham.
If the Social Chronicle links your name to a man... don't you realize they're gonna make it vowel, send it?
Like Bill said, for your paper, you're willing to mix our names with dirt, the headline hunter.
- But I saved his honest name.
I know he's yours now, anyway, by your name.
It's a country that doesn't have a name.
I was told that a man named Charbonier had saved me by digging up and taking me to a safe place.
I've changed my nationality 12 times 14 times my name, and 20 times my appearance.
And I've never lied to my real face and name.
Do you remember a lady named Lola, whom you met in Nice, and her brother, who threw a knife at you?
But, Jeeves, "What's in the name, 'cause the rose smells like rose..."
I'm sorry, but a man with that name didn't stay with us.
Are you sure a gentleman named Edward McDermot doesn't live here?
But she can't pass on her birth name.
And take her name?
Beautiful name!
By bowing to your own father, you will show your eternal love and gratitude for bearing a name -
Dixie Bell isn't her real name.
We need to protect the girl's honest name.
When I hear his name, I have a murder on my mind.
She won't come running because I didn't tell her your name.
- What's his name?
- How do you know my name? Who are you?
- They don't even know your name.
It's a guy named Tommy Gordon!
Tommy, find a guy named Smokey.
Look, there's a guy named Smokey at school.
I believe this man told you that we don't have a child named Hayley.
When my husband hid it, he wouldn't have done it under his name.
Do you know his name?
Do you know a man named Innes?
Is she there under her name?
And don't shout his name like that, the teacher doesn't want it!
Put your names under this telegram.
My name is Flint.
In the name of the law, you're under arrest!
We apologize to these gentlemen. And at the same time, we thank you in the name of justice.
Misuse of Sherlock Holmes' name and identity.
The samurai, Mori, was very worried.
A samurai named Mori?
And as manager of the railway, I have the honour to ask the distinguished wife of the Minister of Roads to name our new locomotive.
I didn't hear your name.
Give me his name and address.
At this moment, I'm thinking of a name.
Look, it's got their names on it.
What funny kids' names!
- You don't have to list the names.
I noticed that when they said Robin Hood's name...
Well, my young friend, what's your name?
Surely you remember the names of all 12 apostles?
- Your name?
Accounts, receipts, names, addresses, checkbooks, everything.
I've given you names.
- What's your aunt's name?
- But she has another name?
You can tell her I'm Mark's friend, and I have cockroaches in my head... but don't tell her my name.
One or two, that's a stupid name.
Doc, write down their names.
What did I say my name was?
- Your name...
His name isn't Bone?
I'm looking for a man named Dr. David Huxley.
Then a thug named Bone.
That's a weird name.
Or add my name here.
Oh, women, vanity is your name.
On behalf of Dexter's company... I have the pleasure of awarding you this humble token of gratitude.
No name, no address.
- My name is Ken.
My name is Ken.
It's my wife's first husband's name, he's dead.
I'm sick on Callochen's behalf!
I'm tired of wearing his name.
When I say his name, it's like I mention a ghost.
In the name of the case.
He taught me and guided me to the righteous in the name of God.
Selfish and clever. We call things our names.
Really, I'm gonna have to put his name in it.
- I need a crew. In the name of the law. Here's the warrant.
That one with four names!
Let's give it a name.
Now, write your names right here.
"Kipper, whose name is so similar to yours..."
Here's a power of attorney in my name.
I'm ready to repeat your name a thousand times.
Oh, my God, those Russian names!
They shame our country's good name in bars and nightclubs. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, u
A known name, honored and respected.
That's a good name for a killer.
I must remember your name.
Kansas is her star's name...
And on behalf of all the lullaby singers, welcome you to the country of gums.
We're ice-cream boys, ice-cream boys, ice-cream boys, and on behalf of ice-cream boys, welcome you to the country of gums.
We'll praise your name, you're our idol...
It's offensive to open a letter with my first name on it.
Write it down in my name.
I like Glend's name very much.
My name is Diems Taylor. And I warmly welcome you here... on behalf of Walt Disney, Leopold Stokovsky... and all the artists and musicians whose combined talent... led to the creation of the latest form of representation called Fantasia.
The song's only got a name left of it.
And they definitely justified their name.
The worst of all, an animal named Tyrannosaurus, was considered the most vicious killer ever carried by the earth.
No, my name is Lawrence.
Yeah, and the middle name is Lawrence, too.
I don't know what he said, but his name is Lawrence. Three times.
Your name?
Don't be so sad. His name will be with him.
A man named Spencer sent us.
Commander Schultz, I apologize for my friend and, on behalf of all of us, I wish to say that it is a great honour for us to die for our country.
Open it by the name of Hinkel!
Make life an amazing adventure! And in the name of democracy, let's use that power!
In the name of democracy, unite!
- I have a name: Peter B Hartwell.
Have you lost your last respect for your name?
- I'm not gonna let you stain our name like that!
- Your name can't be stained. I'm sure it's not the scandalous things you haven't gotten out of all these years!
- Mr. Holgrave, his real name...
Your name.
We're talking about you and a punk named Wilson, and you're both buddies.
You just tell me your name and phone number, and when he feels better, he'll call you.
- You don't even know her name.
What's my name, sir?
He could at least tell me his name.
Chief? - My name is Sims.
- What kind of name is C.K. Dexter Haven?
I knew a guy named Joe Smith.
- What's your name?
- I didn't hear the name.
It was the house of a bastard named Jepeto.
Your name will be written in big letters everywhere. How?
In short, your name.
I prefer the expression of names.
I'm trying to clear her name from the suicide brand!
You didn't expect that, Danny! But there's another name for the killer.
It's a beautiful name that's spinning in :
Maybe you could give me the names of your patients.
Could you read that name again?
- The lady came to you under another name.
- We're not interested in the poor girl's name.
I'm sorry, lady, but to me, people are just names.
Sometimes I try to guess by name what a person looks like, but I don't know anyone who might look like that.
- Her real name!
Someday we're gonna have so many kids we don't have names for everyone.
He won't remember the names anyway.
I have a name.
Your name.
Make sure he erases Mr. Cardew's name from the front door.
About removing Mr. Cardew's name from the company's name?
- She just said she was happy, so you're not removing Mr. Cardew's name from the company's name, even though he's not with us anymore.
Nothing, except Henry's removing Bill's name from the company's name.
I always thought it would be right to keep his name for memory.
I think Bill looks like he's getting his name off the sign, and he's really pissed off about it.
Or because of Bill's name...
Even if I lived two or three thousand years, every day and every night, I would care so much about Vicky that she wouldn't remember your name.
Just screaming a name. Terrible!
And all of a sudden, it came to me.....that probably you all knew by then.....when you saw his name in the paper.
I need to get used to the name.
Don't say his name.
Remember the name Phelps.
I saw your name in the ad...
I saw your name in the papers...
I saw your name...
In the name of our king...
In the name of our king, I declare the marriage.
In the name of our Lord Jesus...
- I'm in the name of Mrs. Elena!
This is where you press in the name of our order.
Pop is the first name I remember.
- What about the name of the horse?
His name? His name?
Mr. Kane, on behalf of all the employees of Inquirer...
My name will be mixed with dirt.
I can't say that name.
You, of course, chose that name to make it hard to find you.
My name is Smith. Mine.
My name is Jones.
My name is Smith, "Will you give me a divorce?"
A man named William Smith.
In the name of God, amen.
My name is Hyde.
Ikawa said you look like a boy named Carrotca from a French movie.
You'll see his name on the glass.
He reinforces my soul, directs me into the paths of righteousness for the sake of his name.
But know that if you do them in the name of Yahweh, in the house of Yahweh, you insult him and his word.
Don't tell Gene my middle name.
- And under a different name.
- Looks like it. Women change their names a lot.
You see, we've been making up new names at every hotel.
The name Angus will never come off my lips again. I hope you support me.
Miss Vanderley's sister ran away with a guy named Floyd Fursby.
What's your name again?
Is it true, as the newspapers say, that there is a connection between this tragic event and the death that happened a little later, a man named Fersby?
I'm willing to pay for it, on behalf of the owner of the statue, an amount of $5,000 for the return.
And then, in 1923, a Greek merchant named Carilaos Konstantinides bought a statue at an antique store.
Tell me how it happened, but don't give me any names!
Jacoby and Fersby were killed by a man named Wilmer Cook.
He works for a man named Casper Gathman.
Tell me, have you heard of a girl named Claire Porter?
- A team with loud names.
- What's the name of that important director?
A guy named Sullivan.
I'm gonna find out what it's like to live with problems like that. No friends, no money, no checkbook, no name.
- Are you still refusing to tell us your name?
Since you still refuse to remember your name...... but have pleaded guilty to an offence and a brutal assault,...................................................................................
I'll make you a name and make you some money.
- I don't even know his name yet.
It's got my name on it.
There's my name, my picture, everything...
- By name?
Thank you on behalf of Earth.
And every time, he was found in Atlantic City with a lady named Clarice.
She ran over me right here, messed up the performance with some dead guy named Miller, some kind of baker, some kind of murder.
I told you a thousand times, she doesn't know any guy named Miller.
Your real name is Alfred, but you keep him a secret.
Honestly, my honest name is all over the air.
A bunny-eyed rat named Pepi.
Didn't you hear me say your name?
There was a widow who had a son named John Stupid.
- Name!
They have a name.
What a name!
You mean... if my name was in the papers, would you hire me?
Nice business cards with the name... Monsieur Durand.
Doctor, this newspaper with Duran's name cut out was found in your room.
The next day, to clear his name...
Hit the kid on my behalf.
- We'll write your name on the target tomorrow.
I don't think I heard my name, sir.
If you give me their names and whereabouts, you'll get a visa in the morning.
Will you give us their names?
You have letters, you put your names there and you leave any time you choose.
These letters need to be filled in, names and signatures.
Write down the names, it'll be even more official.
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Laszlo's names!
But why my name?
Is Irene Dubrovna a Russian name?
You want to know how to spell my name?
I want to be everything that that name means to me.
In God's name, leave us alone.
No, I just accidentally mentioned his name.
Hey, can you find out if there's a guy named Matthews who owns the Observer, if there's a country house, and where's he?
For a man who has dedicated the last 30 years of his life to a selfless struggle for justice.
I want to name the city.
Name?
You know, if a woman feels the same as you... and her name is Hannah...
So you need to change your name and leave.
I'm asking you to give me a name. - Nope.
His name is Perry Clay.
I thought his name was Mueller.
My name is Mr. Kuvetley.
My name is Haller, Dr. Fritz Haller.
Is that his name?
What's his name?
That name's not on the list.
His name is Mueller or Miller.
He's not Greek, his name is Banat.
I bet you have a maid named Anna.
- Name given at baptism.
Now I'm writing about a lady named Lou.
He says Napoleon's name was cognac, Bismarck's name was given to herring, and Hitler's name was stuck...
I felt so bad that I asked Dobash to write your name first on the poster of a new play.
- Oh, yeah, yeah, that's a very familiar name!
In Warsaw, her name was every step of the way.
Your name?
Cognac was named after Napoleon, and Bismarck's name was given to herring.
...and Hitler's name will remain a new kind of cheese for centuries!
I don't think Hitler's name's gonna be remembered as that.
But what matters is the name of the leader of the Warsaw underground.
- So what's the name of the shepherd?
His name was then given to the destroyer.
- Your name?
No one's interested in his name.
You have no idea how much I've suffered by thinking about you all the time and not even knowing your name. I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-
- Your name? - Private Winters.
She calls me by my name.
Hey, Bozman, what happened to that lady from San Diego named Rosa?
- Your name, please?
Our ship has a beautiful name for Freedom.
It's a new ship with a famous old name.
I don't even remember his name.
"Blessed be the name of God."
"Glory be to your name.
- Name:
In the name of Allah, the Beneficent and Merciful, the Lord of the Righteous, and our Lord of the Emir, has bestowed upon all the grasshopper a great favour upon them, giving them guardians to feed them, thereby giving their subjects the opportunity to thank the illustrious Emir daily and every hour.
Foreign man, tell me your name so I know who to bless!
Yeah, tell me your name so I know who to curse!
In the name of Allah, what's going on here?
In the name of Allah, what's going on in Bucharest?
He took my name!
He says I, Hussein-Huslia, took his name!
Today, this lying and contemptible old man says I took his name, and tomorrow he's gonna tell his palace...
Let the Emir give it to me, and I, with the help of torture, know his real name.
That I embarrassed your name?
In the name of Allah, the merciful and merciful... the lord of Bukhara, the moon and the sun of the universe, weighing on the scales of justice the sin of harbouring a blasphemyr and an outrager of the peace of Nasreddin, decided:
Name and address.
- Looks like your girlfriend's name, sir.
- I never told you my name.
- That's a funny name.
Maybe my name doesn't tell you anything, but you just tell me, and I'll find it in two days.
A gentleman named Jud.
What's your name? Oakley.
Do you know the name of the opponent? Yes.
I know the name of the insurance company, and now get out of here.
Maria asked me to write down your name and address.
- Here you go. Did you write down the name? - Yes.
- Really, my name will be everywhere.
- On behalf of...
- Your name, please?
I'll write your name with commercial lights."
You wrote my name in your notebook and it didn't go any further.
You called me by my name.
There's no name on it.
Just my name.
He's been screaming your name all day.
If you ask Miss Dietrichson, her name is Lola.
You must have read their names.
- What letter? - I found it in the notes. From a man named Bauer.
- What's your name? - Cameron.
Tell me, Father, do you know a local boy named Tony Scaponi?
Your name is whispering.
Your name is whispering.
I changed my name.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
What a beautiful name.
Beautiful people always have beautiful names.
I need to come up with another name for you.
For Guise's hamburger, that's not a good name.
Too bad it's not a woman's name.
What a beautiful name.
You, my lord, have recently sought some Duchess through ambassadors in the name of the rights of the great Edward.
But it is still in the hands of the Lord; I will call upon him. In God's name, tell the prince:
In God's name, let's punish the prince at his doorstep!
I swear on my hand, I hate that name.
What France broke in front of Cressia when all the princes were captured by the Hand and by the black name of Edward Wales, who was called the Black Prince.
He demands, in the name of the All-beneficent Creator, that you renounce the kingdom, and that you make a loan of greatness, and that by the command of heaven and men, He has given it to him and his descendants,
Swimming's a good name for you.
Whoever comes home unharmed will rise in spirit, will be taller in the name of St. Crispian.
And our names shall be in his tongue, among the words of the usual.
What's the name of the castle over there?
With that name, he must predict the future in Italian!
First day of the reporters, and his name's on the front page!
Give me the names of the other three!
Excessively curious people are trying to disparage your name, that's what happened!
And here are the winners' names...
- What's the name? - Of course!
Do you even remember his name?
How can I remember his name if I can't even remember...
And we'll know all about him. Name, year of birth, that's all.
Someone said, "Don't name your real names."
- Even with an alias, Mr. Johnson?
What's that got to do with names?
Marriage is a matter of fact, not a name.
Since you're here on behalf of a friend who doesn't want to seem... all I have to say is he should be ashamed of himself.
Doesn't your friend remember the fiancé's name?
He called it a fake name.
But they have to be real people with names, body, and meat on their bones.
Don't tell me to find a name in my marriage license, I don't have one.
How can you be sure if you don't even have a name or a marriage certificate?
- What was his name?
- Doesn't he have a name?
Of course he has a name.
Everyone has a name.
Even dogs have names, even though they don't have names.
I had an uncle named Rasco.
That's the name of the snake eater!
- Well, that was my uncle's name.
- That's my father's name.
You're good. Sit and say "Uh" and I have to find a name before we get there.
It's more like people choosing their own name...
- Name, please.
Then he didn't write his name, he was taken for it, and we ended up in the ass.
- He didn't write his name on purpose.
You stained the name of our beautiful city.
You saved my daughter's good name.
So, you're connected to him... and you certainly made a good name for yourself in the city.
If no one knows you were married to this, like his... and it was all by mistake, anyway... with false names... why do you have to prove it?
We can't do anything that contradicts justice... and defies our honest name.
The guy wrote his real name, didn't he?
We're gonna have to pick names.
I was sniffing around about a hairdresser named Dominic whose wife wanted him back.
I saw your name downstairs on the sign.
My name is Moses. ).......................................
- What's her full name?
I don't know anyone named Moose, cop.
I don't know anyone named Moses.
- Who gave you my name?
There's a little package on my doorstep named Nalty who's trying not to look like a cop.
- What's the name?
He could have found my name in the directory.
What's your name?
The Duke's name.
My name is Duchess:
- Name?
Gentlemen, may I have your names?
- Your names, please.
It's the right name.
Gray, this size, it's got the name of the boat on it.
But from our sources, we got their names...
He doesn't know our name, we're Fitzgeralds.
If only we could get the name of that nurse.
I think that Mary took Carmel's baby... gave her a home and a name, provided that Carmel never came back.
I thought you didn't even know my name.
What a good name.
- My name is Sloan.
There are no other names but yours and...
She married an Englishman named Potts.
- What's your name? - Joan.
"Vrecan" is the name of the Norwegian prince.
His good name has been cleared.
...the horse is pale, and on it is a horseman whose name is death...
Beautiful Elena-- and suddenly Svensson-- what's your name?
I'm not French. I'm American. But I was raised in France. I'm Countess de Trignon.
And I'm known as Clio Dulain.
She must be buried in a cemetery in St. Louis on a sanctified land. This must be done on her grave with her name on it.
My name is Maroon Clint Maroon.
Clint Maroon is such an American Texas ma'am.
Bellop don't curl up her face. Her name's Bellop. Everyone in Saratoga is freaking her out.
I'm Mrs. Doo Schenfrez. I don't know that name.
I don't want my name in the papers, do you?
You know, the minute I saw you, I wanted to know your name.
Next time, I'll look at the artist's name.
- What's his name?
Nick, I've already brought you things, and you never asked for names.
Leave your name and address.
I'm sorry, we're looking for a man, but I'm afraid we don't know his name.
My name is Janeway.
You know, just as a friend. - I didn't hear your name.
I know I shouldn't have signed them by my name, but Mr. Dellarow wanted to know who the artist was, and I couldn't tell you your name.
Who cares whose name is yours or mine?
Only I took your name.
- A man named Higgins.
His song was messed up when he mixed the girl's name with dirt.
Your name?
I know all about you, your real name, and your political activities about the past. As for the present, I know from my people that you are one of the military leaders of the National Liberation Committee and are directly associated with the military centre, the Badolians.
Give me the names of the Badolian military leaders. Help me arrest them, and I guarantee you freedom.
What's the name?" Manfredi or Ferraris?
Her name is never mentioned in this house.
I just saw your name on the poster this afternoon. And I tell my husband...
It's a simple name.
My real name is Jeanne.
We've compiled a list of possible suspects, and it includes a dozen names.
- Your name, please?
You think I can't write my name?
- Do you know where Jackson's school is?
I remember as well as my own name.
What's his name?
My name means pomegranate.
Show me the names first.
What a funny name.
One single, the other married a man named Rutledge, but not well.
- I don't know anyone by that name.
My name is Marlowe.
Do you have a girl named Agnes Logier?
- A guy named Harry Jones told me that.
But I'm sure he won't mind one little, official kiss on behalf of all the ladies.
And on behalf of the girls of the junior branch office.
I told you she kissed me on behalf of the junior branch.
In the name of the great state of Virginia, what does all this mean?
Well, I'll rewrite it to your name.
All right, write down their phones, their names, do something.
I don't know his name.
You know I can't tell you his name.
I have bad memories of names and numbers.
May I ask your name?
Yes. I told him the name.
Look, a guy named Jardin is scared of me.
What's the name?
What name did he leave behind?
A man named Staufer lives here?
The name is the name of the president.
They gave me Staufer's name and address.
- Your name's Alex?
What did you say your name was?
- Who was there and what were their names?
What's Mr. Raymond's wife's name?
And the waiter's name at your restaurant that you conspired with, and your sister found out?
That's a weird name.
"And a great family name.
What an amazing name!
Because my name is just Wells. And I'm from the farm. And I don't speak French.
Ever since you came back, you've never mentioned his name.
- I thought she had a name.
I have baptized you in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
How do you know my name?
Don't mention his name!
From now on, you'll respect her name.
That's a great joke. He's protecting the girl's name.
I told you never to say that name again.
We need the shareholders' names.
Let me explain to you why we so need the shareholders' names, Mr. Farrell, to convict them for violating antitrust laws.
A lot of people are asking for help from a man named George Bailey.
Why is my name here?
How do you know my name?
A man with that name doesn't exist.
It's in the pocket of a man named Victor Minard... or Louisel... or Martinyac.
My name is François, so what?
We're looking for a thief named Victor Minard - Louisel - Martinjac...
- I don't even know your name.
- What's your name?
I'm surprised you even remember our names.
When a guard, in one person and a prison midwife, filled out my birth certificate, she left the only dark stain on my family's history. As a result, I never recognized my father's name.
In an effort to correct the omission, I have acquired many names for many cases before I dwell on the name that France will remember for a long time:
Your face, monsieur, expresses the very essence of the purity in which St. George lived, fought and won.
- Your new name!
- His name, for example?
- Ah, name...
Criminals change names like gloves, the most important thing is appearance!
Find yourself a grave, Emile, as well as a name.
To make sure we meet again, I'd like to know your name, the present one.
I had so many names, I'm afraid I forgot the last one.
- Where did you get that name?
As you know, I've told you everything about my scandalous career, His Excellency, who for the sake of his daughter's happiness forgave me. - But on one condition, my boy!
Talk to me. To him, I'm kind of alive, not just a doll with eyes and no name.
Think of your name.
Think of other names.
There must be other names. Taylor.
Now they only know my name. If I tell them I don't remember, they'll back off.
Depends on which one. About a man named George Taylor who lived here three years ago.
There's no one here with that name.
It's just a name you used to start talking to me.
From time to time, you read about it in the paper... a guy named John Doe was found without memory.
No name.
Do you know a guy named Larry Cravat?
He got a license, wrote his name on the window and put his legs on the table.
Could you ask about a man named Anselmo?
L.C. is just a name from my book... and that means I'm going to this place.
Are you sure that's the name?
Before you called me yesterday, Cravat was the name in the old phone book.
- A man named Conroy.
The man who was going to make you rich, what's his name?
You never even called me by my name.
I left my name ODR in case soldiers and sailors...
You see, it looks like he killed a man tonight, named Conroy.
Murder, fast change of clothes, change of name, and then escape to a whole new war.
I have a tailor named George.
Even if it didn't happen to me, it was about a guy named Taylor.
- Just because you have a different name.
It's a good thing I remembered your names, Anselmo.
Do you have another name?
- His name is Louis Burt.
Is that a Polish name?
We've got beautiful names.
Oh, I'm so sorry, but I'm incognito here. I travel under the name Kitty Klotch even my travelers don't know who I am.
Albuquerque, New Mexico, a woman was arrested by the police tonight... cashing a check on behalf of Christopher Madden... the famous author, the real Miss Madden is in Hollywood...
Oh wait, my shoes promise you won't do this trick again in Chicago and we got a Quarter of whiskey but sign a check by someone else's name, it's a crime we have to leave Albuquerque immediately.
I'm not Kalhaun. Callahan was Kellahan before, and now I've changed my name to Miss Shaw.
Why not? If Keith Klotch changed her name to Christopher Madden, I can do the same.
Changed her name, wrote a book, and what?
- Name.
You can give the streets different names, but if you name them, I'm on the street, I'm on the street, I'm on the street, or I'm on the street, that's not gonna make a big difference.
Also, if you're interested, the man we introduced you to as the District Attorney's Office, Arvy, was a state attorney oncticut, by the name of "Omer ammings."
- A man doesn't always give his real name to girls, Ida.
I'll call you Sandra.
Then the teachers started calling everyone by their names, and they had to let me in.
His name is Dubrock.
You know, a girl named Gemma?
And your precious Gemma told them that she lived with a musician named Dubrock, so naturally they assumed it was me.
In the name of Piccolo?
Only when you tell me your name.
How did you know my name?
One of them is a music broker named Steinach.
He says he finally has a name.
You know, no one even knows your name.
His real name is Mr. Donat.
Have you ever met a man named Mr. Chips?
During the premiere, your name shines in commercials.
There's still, really, another unfinished business called Jamie.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.
Yeah, yeah, Peter's a beautiful name.
Like your real name.
I forgot his name. He says he's a handsome prince.
I'd like the police to ask him his name.
Your name?
Your name?
- Name, last name.
Her name is on the walls.
That's why I wrote a check in your name.
I used to think, how's he doing? And then I accidentally pass by... and I see his name on the sign.
They say on the day of death, your name will be written on the clouds.
Of course, there's another name on the sign.
Meet me at a lawyer's apartment named Leonard Ils.
Mitha took him to a man named Baylord.
It says I killed a guy named Jack Fisher.
- Thank you on behalf of all French women.
- On behalf of all French women, I withdraw my gratitude.
Daddy, with his millions, I need a better name than Georges Durois.
- I'll file for a divorce tomorrow morning and give you your name.
I'm not gonna let your name or my name be publicly stained with his vile accusations.
"Mr. Georges Durois intends to address the seal keeper with a claim in the name of "De Cantel". ...to be called Georges Durois de Cantel.
I've been told they're out of line. And since there have been no protests so far, in six months I will legally own a name.
With that name, you can get married very well.
The name de Cantel is much more significant than the name of the Marquis de Kazol.
In six months, I'll own it the same way he owns his name.
When that name belongs to your grandchildren, no one will argue with it.
He'll have a great name.
- Do you know the name De Cantel?
They're gonna take his name away from him.
And now he's stealing a name!
Someone stole my name.
But since it's been a year since he put in an announcement that he wants to rob me, I can't get the bastard to give me my name back!
Convince him to give his name back to that young man!
I don't care about his name-- that's what his father wanted.
Chief, I've already found six current accounts in Brignon's name.
After serious music sessions at the Paris Conservatory, where I won the first harmonica award, I continued to perform the song when I met a certain Margaret Shofurnier, known as Genie Lamour.
Auguste says to me, "I pay you 15,000 a week, your name's on the program.
I'm not the one who picks those damn names!
On behalf of Kuxie, thank you, but that's not necessary.
Name it!
On whose behalf?
On behalf of all those in need.
- Your name?
- Name? - Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Write your name yourself.
I don't remember her name.
- I think that's her real name.
His real name was Alexander-Marie von Zabon.
The mortier said you were an actress when I asked him what your name was.
- Names don't matter.
You don't care who has the name.
You have to risk it and be a hero in the name of what you don't know.
May I know your name?
Even so, sometimes I'm a hypocrite, sometimes Gunter, but I'm not gonna say no on Ravik's behalf either.
My name is Hans Schmidt.
Sir, a man named Smith...
My name is Lindley.
His name is Holtzman.
Get the name of my personal elevator security guard. Yes, sir.
I've been fired since 17:25 today. My name is written in gold letters at the head of the blacklist. There's nothing more I can do in the publishing business.
Earl told you the name Jefferson Randolph, but I think it's fictional.
Name
Do you know her name?
- You got it? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Did I come up with the name Kazimir Kowalski?
In the name of Tony Guarino. - Tony Guarino.
Name?
- Name?
- Name?
I never ask for names.
In the name of the law, Rom, stop!
"Gives life to my soul, leads me in the ways of the faithful, keep your name true."
His name will be Mikaep.
Her name is Pauline Rose, but we call her Dusty.
Look, what's your name?
- Who is it? - The Congresswoman, I don't remember the name.
- What's the name of that colonel?
I don't even know your name, dear Congressman.
No names.
Name?
- Yes. Do you have the names of the witnesses?
I couldn't stop to ask their names.
Your name, please.
She never talked about a man named Henderson.
Have you ever visited a woman named Dexter?
Name:
McGillikaddy is a name Dan invented for an unknown person in the case.
She even changed her name.
Did your daughter tell you anything about a man named Henderson?
Is that a reason to leave home and change your name?
You told me your name was Ruth Morrison, not Hilton.
Two and a half years ago, you arrested a man named Bakelis.
- I mean the name.
And a former wrestler named Willie Garzah lives here somewhere.
Your name is Mr. Henderson?
- His name is Bakelis.
Her name, her face, her story... sold five cents for six days.
He came here and told a story about a guy named Forbes.
It wasn't until 8:00 that you were a fat brunette named McDonald.
- You know? - Something to do with her name, what's her name?
Anyway, I don't want to hear from you anymore. Forgive me my contempt, it is in the name of humanity and the foundations of our world, which I consider to be civilized.
It's like a horse's name with a whip.
Remind me of your name...
And to prove my love, I transferred a million dollars to him.
- Well, what's his name? - Who is he?
- Your name?
She said she did it on behalf of all American women.
Now I ask the court for another, to remove this stain from my good name.
First, you have to write your names here.
Whose name did you write that impressive check?
You can write your name on the dust!
Someone told me my name.
I don't know. But we'll figure something out. - Your name?
What's your name?
Hundreds of names and faces.
He's in a different name, but it doesn't matter.
Your name is Rosa Carrisi Anelo. - You're the husband of the accused. - Yes.
On behalf of the Neapolitan people, the Naples court, in the case of Mr. Anelo, accused of murder. On the basis of articles 479 and 52 of the Criminal Code, he declares the accused innocent by recognizing his actions as necessary defence.
You don't deserve to say her name.
Here, look at the name!
What's her name?
Tell me your name: give me back my youth.
How do you know that name?
That's the name you remember, Robert.
- Wait a minute, Arthur. - If you order her name on the fan, it'll cost her more.
I'm afraid names are no better...
Augustes has always been one of my favorite names...
I saw your name recently in the papers...
All she wants is to get her good name back, start her life again!
And when it's over, when you don't wear his name anymore, the light will be good again.
A fan with her name on it.
Father's name and profession.
Father's name?
- Name.
Name.
- Name?
- Do you know a man named Steve Mason?
The precinct received a report about a girl named Phillips.
If I could get your name, Miss...
I'm sorry, Ruth, but I'm not letting anyone use my name.
My name is Horace.
Besides, there's nothing funny about that name.
Murph, bring in a girl named Ruth Phillips.
Don't bother remembering our names.
By the name of Booth.
So the horses will be in your name.
You don't have a name.
And you, girl, what's your name?
You have a room reserved for Stratton.
# Don't remember names?
I couldn't remember his name.
No, ma'am, we don't have anyone with that name.
- Name?
- He's got it. His name?
A guy named Lime.
I don't think I've ever heard her name.
In one of the letters, he asks you to call a good friend of his named Joseph.
Do you know a man named Harben?
Anyway, it's a name.
Holly... what a stupid name.
Oh, that's the right name!
That's why I got the name Flying Blade.
That's a beautiful name.
Use my name to get out of this mess!
You... what's his name?
Sir, on behalf of the employees,
My name is Ertebise.
- Your name is Eurydice, right?
Your name.
I have a name. Paulie.
That's a man's name, Paul.
I'm starting to like that name.
What's his name?
- Don't call it that, okay?
- Will his name be placed in the Hall of Fame?
Give me your name.
Nope. I can't tell you my name.
You can, or you can tell me your name and you can make a full confession...
You'll think differently when you see your name on the front page of the paper. The man who pursues a sick woman is in a state of nervous distress.
"The question is, "What's your name, please?" "
The occasion for this annual feast and pompous ceremony is the Sarah Siddons Award for outstanding achievements.
We see not only beauty and artistry that have made her name so famous, we know her modesty, her loyalty, her love of art.
We'll put your name on it, Max Fabian.
Maybe it's someone's name.
As far as I remember, your name wasn't mentioned in the conversation.
I didn't have any names, but it wasn't Sven-gali.
I want no one else to say Eve's name today.
You used my name and article to blackmail Karen and get her to give you that part.
Tell me, how do you know my name?
Your name is known to everyone, Mr. DeWitt.
In the name of the King, open up!
Anything at all? No, I don't remember Eugene ever mentioning your name.
He sold iridium to a merchant named Majak.
I found Phillips' name in your notary book.
- Wanted George Reynolds in the name of Eugene Phillips from Los Angeles.
Does the name George Reynolds mean anything to you?
You and Reynolds call each other sweet names and you make a fool out of Phillips.
He must have come for the photo. But he can't be your good friend... because his name isn't George Reynolds.
I'm sure. Does the name Raymond Rakubian mean anything to you?
He also uses the name George Reynolds.
The Darrow Bank handles all business matters in this area on behalf of Anaheim Bank.
At one time, his name was disturbing even in Washington.
I've seen that name a lot.
These songs will keep his name for centuries.
And we'll call him T.S. Same name.
- You said that name!
You promised not to say that name and you said it!
I'll change my name.
- An unusual name for an animal.
He said he was looking for a friend named Harvey.
I don't remember the name. I've come, I've been drawing. Then we paid him and he left.
- It's a bar with a name...
A beautiful blonde named Mrs. Smefills... and her companion sat at a table across from us.
They say, "We don't know your name, mister, but you're a very nice kid."
I took it okay because when you live in a town... as long as I do, you get used to everyone around you knowing your name.
You know my name, and I don't know yours."
And he said, "What name do you like?"
Harvey was always my favorite name.
Did you ever know anyone named Harvey?
Have you met anyone with that name?
- I don't even want to know her name, and I'd just be...
Do you have a permanent couple? I'm not asking for a name.
Her name is Mildred Atkinson. Mildred Atkinson.
I came to ask you not to mention my name in the papers.
I didn't know her name or her place of residence.
Now I know your name, where you live, and how you look.
And I'll tell you his name.
Those two who were interested in you know your name.
Do you know a man named Curtis?
No, we're looking for a man named Curtis.
We don't know any names or fingerprints.
- Your name, ma'am?
As well as height, weight, occupation... her name and the killer's name.
- By the name of Jacqueline Elcott.
Did she call him by his name?
Your name is in her notebook.
I didn't remember her name.
68 names...........................................
A check in the name of Vivian Heldon?
What a stupid name!
Now, my child, I will give you a gift that will blind you. I'll give you my name.
My name is Schaefer, Betty Schaefer.
I don't like Missed Shoot and your name.
She was, like all writers who just got to Hollywood, full of ambition, hoping to see her name on the screen one day:
You don't remember her face, but you know her name, Norma Desmond.
He didn't leave a single name.
Called a fake name and ran away, didn't she?
Loxley's name is visible in his absence.
My real name is Lennington.
An attempted suicide must be reported to the police even under an alias.
Well, no, we just used his name there was the police.
When I tried to register for the flight.....I gave our names, it's like confessing to murder.
What's your name?
That's a good name.
I knew a widow with that name.
Whose name is the vehicle registered?
In my name, Margot Lincott.
No one can say that, not a name on the evidence!
And there's a gentleman named Zayat and by the name of Martovsky.
That's a familiar name.
We only have the same names.
What are they doing? They don't have anything to write yet, the trial hasn't started yet. They write down their names so they don't forget them until the end of the trial.
For any artist, there is only one place where he can live, learn and be inspired, a city named Paris. What's there to explain?
You've already said that name twice.
But remember, one day in the world, the name of Mulligan will be called.
You probably don't know my name.
I think from time to time, one of the passengers left these papers in Super Chife, and you could see my name in the subscriptions to the articles.
I have a few more names for him.
Does the name ring any bells?
Tomorrow, your name will be in every newspaper.
- What's your name, sir?
Rosanna... when are you gonna give him a name?
I don't want to give him a name right now.
Looks like he used a fake name.
That's a weird name, but it doesn't matter.
I'll repeat the names.
I don't know anyone with that name.
She hit him with Virginia's name.
That's not mine. My distant relative, a man named Pettigrew, left this to me.
I welcome you on behalf of my mother.
Your name in English history is the beautiful flower of the age of elegance.
- You said you should marry a girl named Kate.
The names of the suspects if someone forgot Moshi Castro and Gordy Miller.
- Your name?
Does that name mean anything to you?
I don't know your name.
There's a lot to say about a man by his name.
Do you know my name?
- The man refused to give his name. He was very nervous, excited about something, and he asked me to take it.
Ask the man who didn't say his name.
- Did you know my name?
- Name, last name, occupation?
- Should I wear a fake beard and perform under someone else's name?
It's a French name, it means a French name.
Say it. Do you know anyone named Shaw?
If you're not alone, don't mention my name.
Lucy, what kind of names did you whisper to me?
We're looking for a guy named Ricky and Fred.
Chesira, tell him to calm down and fall asleep. Give it to me.
I need to know her name, and all the other data. What does she do now?
If my information is accurate, that criminal, that thief, I don't remember his name, he was influenced by the same power.
I'll put your father-in-law's name in it.
I'll do what my father would do. With honor and in the name of the Queen.
Their names are the legend of France.
Helen is a beautiful name.
- No, a guy named Whittle.
Oh, and if you send your condolences, add my name, too.
- The child's name.
John Anthony, I baptize you in the name of the Father of the Son and the Holy Spirit, amen.
A guy named Sound just dropped by.
Now go, I'll even try to forget your name, I hope you're cured here by my kindness.
His name is on the tip of my tongue.
Name?
What's his name?
Author &apos; s name,
His name is Burrows, George Burrows.
The girl's name is Bessie Schmidt.
She also uses the name Sally Gardiner.
His name is Lewis Schafer.
In her name. It's 40,000.
My name is Thompson.
But Sally bought 40,000 government bonds in her name.
Sally moved from her apartment to Maple Avenue... a long-distance storage company four weeks ago... to the Leroy Hotel, where she registered under the name Bessie Schmidt.
Your name, please?
In the 12th century, after the third crusade, a Saxon knight named Wilfred Ivanhoe carried out his crusade.
Tell him his name and he'll come to you.
He's not allowed to say your name out loud.
When people like you sat at home, we fought the pagans in the name of England and were killed by their weapons.
If our blood is red enough to spill it in England's name, it's red enough to show respect to any woman on the island, whether it's a Saxon, a Celtic, or a Norman.
Write down any terms, and I'll sign them on Richard's behalf.
Your name and nationality, sir knight.
My name will remain a secret, I'm a subject of Richard, King of England.
Locksley, in Richard's name, attack and take this castle.
Can you give me his name?
If I give up the fight, Ivano will be the winner, and both of you will live, and I will fall into displeasure, and I will be the fallen knight with no name and no honor.
What kind of name is that?
My name.
That's not a name.
You bow in front of a name on a brass plate.
His name is Vincent van Gogh.
Pay for the tray license on behalf of Marie Charle.
You should be punctured for embarrassing our name.
But I'll sign. That's my name, my work.
We're proud of our name, like noble blood is an achievement.
What's his name?
They worked with a waiter named Frederick, tall brunette, strong as a bull.
- You remember them all by their names?
- You still remember my name, George.
Avoid border guards. - In the name of all the saints, why? - Why?
I sent a telegram on your behalf inviting the press at 8:30.
Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at this charming couple, you're not surprised that their names are on the mouths of the world.
Are you speaking on Lena's behalf?
Beatrice - there's something divine about that name.
Tell me, have you given her a name yet?
I had everything. What did I have? My name is in the papers, my pictures are in the best magazines.
Have you met an American woman named Cynthia Green?
And don't forget, the president's got your name all over him.
These are the names of those captured by an officer, Mr. President.
Zapata, in the name of everything we've fought for, don't go!
In the name of everything we've fought for, I'm leaving.
Do you know a man named Carlo Sozosi?
- Only to write his name?
Make a name for yourself.
Next comes the name, the main bet.
I wouldn't be surprised if one of them is still in front of a house with the displaced name Murdoch on it.
Names of potential parents:
Then please tell me the names of the people you're doing business with.
I'll give you the names of these people in writing.
By the way, does Mr. Graham have any name other than Harry?
Nope. Harry is his name.
- Harrison Graham is my real name.
- Did you change your name?
I just wanted my name to sound more official.
But it's only because he gave the child and his mother his name and dignity in society that society wants to destroy him.
What does three exclamation signs mean after the girl's name?
The real name is Cochin. In letters :....................................................
I don't even know your name.
Does that name mean anything to you?
He's going to register at the Pont Royal Hotel under the name Mulligan.
- Name? - Pruit.
Do you know the name Stark?
That's a nice name.
Madame took my name from the perfume ad.
That's a beautiful name.
Found a card with his name on it.
Funny old name.
- Your name, sir.
I told you my name.
- Thank you. - I don't know your name.
He didn't say his name.
I told my friends in different cities to send telegrams on my behalf to my wife.
- What's the name?
I'm sorry, I forgot your name.
Okay, then give me the name and address of this man.
- Your name?
- Whose name is the favor to be given?
Whose name is it?
Your name will appear in the papers.
There's nothing between them but names.
Beautiful names.
Mission Santo Thomas, Colony Guerrero, El Rosario, but just names.
That's the name of the car.
The name's different, but...
A man named George Loomis, temporarily resident.
I'm gonna hear that name again, and I'm gonna start screaming like crazy.
Your Highness, allow me, on behalf of everyone here... to express our joy at your rapid recovery.
Let me say... on behalf of our News Agency... that Your Highness's faith will not be deceived.
- What a name!
- I don't know. I didn't ask his name.
- What name did they give you?
Our father, who is in heaven. Hallowed be thy name...
Loud names.
Thank you, sir... I keep forgetting your name!
You're famous, your names are always in the papers.
When you get the name...
You have a name that's still good for certain things.
- Your name, please?
I think the house should be registered in the name of the wife. So the trailer is yours.
I mailed them to your firm.
Name?
In the name of the owner of this island, drop your weapons!
Mr. Weddle, your name will be in the papers.
Maybe there's some other Indian in the coutuse with the same name?
Mr. Weddle, your name will be in the papers.
- I really have my name... but I think it's stupid to use it if that's how I get... a lot more attention, and that's why I'm so imagining it.
- I know your name.
- How do you know my name?
- What's her name?
- A guy named Martin.
- How else would she know that name?
You don't know his name?
And I want to know his name.
Give me his name.
And she actually said my name?
I mean, she didn't call me names at first.
There was a girl named Joe.
Now sit down and write under the name of my dear dead wife.
Is your name recorded in this Bible?
At the time, we had an old priest in Brigadoon... named Mr. Forsythe... and he was a good man.
Your names?
Never heard of a man with that name at the shop.
- Your name, sir?
His name, really, is hard to figure out.
One of my parishioners, whose name my duty does not allow me to name, committed a robbery.
- What name is he using?
All these police cars and code names can only draw his attention.
Code names, police cars...
I'd like him to be kind enough to tell me about you instead of letting me read your name in the papers, which leads me to the purpose of this invasion.
Madame, I'm here on behalf of the law.
Like most modern-day girls who have only stupidity in mind, she came up with a new name.
But I think I've heard that name somewhere before.
She tried to get away from her past, so she took a different name, Daisy Renton.
I said I took another name, Daisy Renton.
Gerald, honey, you turned yourself in, you should have told him that name.
Shortly thereafter, she gave up her name and became Daisy Renton.
- And you don't know that's my name?
My name is Johnny...
What's the name of the killer?
There are no such names! Isn't that what someone wants to call me?
Yeah, and that's a name!
I still have a name. I said come here.
You changed your name and thought you changed everything?
Yeah, that's my name, man.
- But you didn't even ask my name.
That name, Kade-Shenonzo, I've had the most trouble!
I hesitated before I chose such a complicated name.
"Cade-Shennonso" is a beautiful name, isn't it?
- Are you afraid to say his name?
I could make a name, but I turned into a pussy.
Please stand up when you hear your name.
Raise your right hand. - Your name.
I only said your name and address.
A cop named Extram is gonna ask you a few questions.
Your name and number?
Your name in the phone book?
His name doesn't come off the papers this week.
And I don't know anyone named Harry.
- Whose name was the chest sent to?
- In the name of Mrs. Anna Torvald.
- Your name?
He was brought here by a man named Martin.
What's your name?
A guy named Weston.
One day he'll have to come back and protect the name he inherited from his father!
When will you finally realize that you can only risk your life for a noble cause?
And there was also a man whose title was never named, who was following a small pool in which a goldfish named George lived.
And he had a daughter named Sabrina.
Are you sure you don't want to say your name?
The curtain is raised at 8:40. In Colony, I used your brother's name, and that's why they gave you the darkest corner!
I can't remember that girl's name from the garage!
One in Miss Sabrina Fairchild's name, one in my name.
Next, transfer a thousand simple Larrabi shares to Thomas Fairchild.
Translate it to David Larrabee's name.
That's a name! That name again!
To protect the prestige of my name!
By the name of the village of Miyamoto, we shall give him the proper name of the samurai:
Now I understand why you keep your names secret, but you still need to be called something.
I'll give you the names.
Have you ever met a woman named Tamaki?
Please, in the name of the goddess of mercy, give it back to me!
I picked a name for you to wear to the governor.
You'll also go to Sanso's manager and find a girl named Shinobu.
A girl named Shinobu, sir?
I'm looking for a woman named Nakagimi.
My name is Shimada Kambei, I'm just a ronin... and I don't take students.
And my name is this!
This is Kikuchio, your name?
You think of a name for me.
Looks like a woman's name.
Your name Shino?
With my silhouette in red letters, my name is.
I had to change my name after all those newspapers...
But you already have a Swedish name...
Eve is a beautiful name.
Oh, do you know the names yet?
You carry my name through the mud like a lafet.
She doesn't need an ambassador to speak on her behalf!
You're trying to link my name to Conti. Monsieur Durán has decided to take this name.
Don't tell them what you saw. Thank you on their behalf.
In the name of the people, Willy Nauman was sentenced to death for sabotage.
One day I began to feel ashamed that I was German, that on behalf of the people and on my behalf there was so much injustice being done to other peoples.
- At least tell me her name.
- Whose name is it?
Look, if you don't at least say her name, I'm gonna be offended.
- "I have a girl named Maddalena."
Name:
Fifteen minutes under a cold shower before I can remember my name.
In the name of justice, you can't blame me.
My name in Hollywood is crooked.
I can't remember his first name.
We gave names to the mountains and the bays.
Science has no names for these animals, and they are given such names to be understood in any part of the world.
We didn't have a servant with that name.
Name
Your real name is Jude Bergman.
I want to call it my name.
Sometimes three days pass and I don't remember his face, his name is what I said, "I love you, and I will always love you."
It's like happy when a guy named Joe smiles a lot.
It's lucky there's a guy named Joe in the world.
But, I mean, if there are reporters here, you can write whatever you want, but don't call them names.
It's happiness, a guy named Joe.
You were with a friend, I was with a friend named Angie.
Name:
I met Dr. Danielly... through a common acquaintance... named Alain Berger.
His name?
Paris, that's a magic name!
to make a name for yourself.
My name won't tell you anything... and then, in an hour, we'll break up.
- And sign your name:
It's a good name for a fashion journalist.
their names, faces, phone numbers, their bank account numbers,
A couple of famous names make you feel like you've read a good article.
Suddenly, she remembered the man she loved so much... who once predicted that she was destined to be famous... and that her name would appear in all the newspapers.
And those fruits don't have names written on them.
"They may have taken fruit, but they don't have their master's names written on them!"
The authors expect this film to be a warning to those who, because of their weakness, may one day yield to temptation and fall victim to a terrible plague whose name is : NARCOTICI.
One guy, I don't know his name.
His name is Jim.
I forgot his name.
- I remembered his name.
So none of you know the name of this Christian?
On the contrary, it's your duty. Think of the name you're wearing, the people you're supposed to give a job, your situation, your responsibility, Andrea. Your duty.
It's got Tadamori's name on it.
But love is the continuous juggling of three balls whose name is heart, words, sex.
You're going down and suddenly I realize I'm touching my wife and whispering your name.
Although, of course, you have a name, Mademoiselle Armfeld...
It's a good name for a boy.
- You didn't say your name.
Or are you the one who puts the names of your victims in the diary? What's the name of that French girl you went to?
I didn't know your new name. That's what I figured.
My real name is John Ruby.
If you're not Burns from Oregon, why did you hide your name...
No, a man named Fussar.
I only mentioned your name once when we were talking about weird people.
- How did you know my name?
- How did you know my name?
What about the envelope that has his name and address on it?
If you don't want to talk, come up with any name.
I changed my name...
I think under the current circumstances, I might well call her by her name.
Captain, you never gave me your name.
You can't even say your name if you ever had one.
Doesn't he have a name?
He's not talking, and we don't know his name.
So no one recorded his name?
I just didn't tell anyone it called me by my name.
And with us the name of the king as a fortress,
It's a pretty common name after all.
I hope you'll forgive me, but I discussed his case, naturally without mentioning the names with Dr. Cazzens, one of the best psychiatrists in the country.
He said my problem is that I'm trying to tie ideas... to words and names.
The victim's name is hidden until the parents are notified.
Now we can give the victim's name.
The guard didn't identify the girl by her name... but he said she had light hair and a red dress.
I always thought Christine was a thin name.
Her name was written right on the toilet."
You don't want to disappoint the name of the school.
Some killers, especially those famous... whose names have been widely publicized...
My greatest luck was a little girl named Kristina.
What name was she yelling at?
- Do you remember that name?
First..... that I can preach the word of the Lord... true and hear it... bow your heads to him, who says... anything you do not ask of the Father in my name... will give you.
Is your name Rosiyo? - Yes.
- Hitano? The Gypsies? A good bull must have a good name.
We need a more threatening name.
With that name, he can grow up to be very smart. - Hitano! Hitantito!
- His holy name I bless the animals you brought here today.
Is that your full name?
It's a beautiful name, Boregard.
That's a nice name.
My name is Benedict, Jordan Benedict, does that mean anything to you?
Benedict's name has meant something to everyone who lives here for years.
There's a funny little guy named Joe Piano.
My sister's name means more than her life.
- Nope. - My name.
My name is in a bullfight.
You don't want to explain why you wrote to me about the corride that's gonna happen tonight, and why was my name printed on the posters?
My name is in a bullfight!
That name means something to me.
And his name has been mixed up many times with some wedding scandals, very unfortunate.
Your name.
Under the name Nikolai Korpanov, a merchant selling fabrics.
A jerk wanted to buy Shauke.
Harry Blunt, French journalists, on behalf of Emperor Alexander, award you the Order of the White Eagle.
Colonel Michael Strogov, Commander of the First Cossack Regiment of Siberia, on behalf of Emperor Alexander and on behalf of my personal name, I reward you with the Order of St. George.
The captain didn't choose his own name.
The name doesn't say anything yet.
His mother gave birth to him, gave him a cursed name, and died.
What's your name?
My name is Elijah.
Moby Dick... do Kitams get names?
The name "Pecoda" will be thrown into the mud.
- by the name of Elijah...
- On behalf of our little...
I want you to know that the first tornado rod will be made free of charge... to this cute little girl if she tells me her name.
- Your name is Starbuck?
- Who are you? My name is Starbuck.
- I'm asking, what was her name?
- Dog. - She didn't have another name?
- Not a good name for a dog.
You must not have loved her too much if you didn't even bother to come up with a name.
There's a criminal coming, a guy named Tornado Johnson.
- Here's my name.
A method named by my name.
Sister, the place where I last caused the rain... now bears the name Starbuck.
And I said to myself, "Bill Starbuck, your name is written right on this chair."
I'm tired of you trying to ruin my work, slander my name.
- Everything. The way you say and the way you boast, even your name.
- What's wrong with my name?
So, what's the name for a guy like me for?
I need a name that included all the heavens and the power of a man.
- Now there's that name and it's mine.
You were born Smith, here's your name.
The name that you choose... becomes more than the name you were born with.
And if I were you, I would definitely choose another name instead of Lizzie.
And you certainly don't like the name Lizzie.
There are many millions of wonderful women in the world with wonderful names.
I know the most wonderful name for you.
Beautiful name.
What a name.
If you think it's the same thing, then I'll take the name back for you.
I'll give you another name that suits you.
Mine are worthless, just like my name, Lizzie.
But they're real, like my name.
He's some kind of fraud named Tornado Johnson.
That name isn't good for her.
Melisanda is a one-night stand.
- My name is Ethan.
Can't even remember your name.
Yankee said the dress belonged to a girl, a prisoner of a chief named Scar.
He doesn't even know how to spell my name.
And none of them knew a chief named Scar."
But she also agrees to the name "Listen."
Maybe they took this chief, by the name of Scar.
While you're eating, I'm gonna meet a comanchi named Cicatris.
I understand why you have that name.
Against a team of comanches led by a chief named Scar.
On behalf of these shareholders, I vote in favour.
Can I get his full name and address?
That's his only name, another name I don't know.
Amelia, where can I get the names of the shareholders?
What a nice, friendly name.
I wouldn't want you to be an actor named Rock McKeever.
We're gonna ask her to go to Washington and beg McKeever for some contracts on behalf of the small shareholders.
- What was the name?
I attach a power of attorney in your name.
All votes from small shareholders, everyone gives Miss Partridge the right to vote on their behalf!
The good name of this house means something to me.
We just have to come up with a name for him.
I have a name for him.
We don't have any guests with that name, sir.
Your names, your age, your marital status, everything!
Be worthy of your father's name.
Save our army, and put the bow of the coppers into your hand in the name of those that are swollen, and press them with strength to fight.
For a long time now, the leader has been a charming guy named Naga, who is also sweet and loving as a mad dog.
I think I'm just a name on the employee list. And when one day, someone's gonna ask, "Who's Crabtree?"
On your behalf.
Whose name is it?
- Your name, sir?
An important element of the prosecution was the fact that the boy did not remember the names of the films and the names of the actors, even though he claimed to have been in the movies.
I'm not interested in his name if he makes me happy.
He may not have a big gun, his name doesn't interest me if he just makes me happy.
It's a very familiar name.
That name came up when the young Petersen was arrested, sir.
I just can't let my name be mentioned in documents like these.
Even though his name means a gold miner.
Some whore named Osome tricked Kinzo into dying!
Remember your code names.
On behalf of His Royal Majesty, I welcome you.
I'm looking for an American named Commander Schers.
I'm sure I'll speak for all of us if I admit it was a very pleasant evening.
No name.
Whose cream cheese and salmon bagel, no name?
I know the name, age, place of work and occupation.
You mention my wife's name again, I'll come with a gun.
Did he mention a man's name?
A guy named Davis.
What's your name?
- You need to know my name, you know?
How did you know my name?
Actually, my name isn't North, it's Nordmann.
I know you know his name, and I know you know his precinct.
One minute when an electronic engineer named Mitch McCafi saw something in the sky.
Have you given her a name yet?
I don't think I know her well enough to call her by her name.
Read it all together, it's Susie's name.
What, in the name of God?
For your proven loyalty, I declare on behalf of the Führer that you are promoted to the rank of Sturmführer.
I don't even know your name.
- You don't tell me your name.
You said the right hotel, the right number, the right name, the right gypsy.
Why don't you tell me your name?
I'm interested in your lover's name.
All I know is that the name starts with "A" but not Anna, not Agnes, not Agatha.
The name begins with "A".
Must be an unusual name.
I'm here speaking on his behalf.
Does that name tell you anything?
My wound seems better... but I could recommend a few names.
One of the cult followers we talked to, a farmer named Rand Hobart, was arrested a few weeks ago as an alleged killer.
- You know my name.
It was a very popular name for cats in the Middle Ages.
What did you say your name was?
Mary, what a lovely name.
Don't you see, it's the same name.
Because the hypnotist chose the name Oscar.
I like the name Elsa, the wonderful name.
- What's his name?
His name? I don't know.
In the name of the Father, Son...
On behalf of the French people... Corporal Philip Paris, Private Maurice Ferol and Private Pierre Arnault... of the seven hundred first regiment... have been found guilty of cowardice in the face of the enemy and will... be executed without delay... in accordance with the decision of the Tribunal.
You know a guy named Cameron doesn't live around here?
The prints on Harry Castleton's belt belong to a woman named Margaret Fowler.
Prayers wander through the land and beat themselves in the name of God.
- It's all in God's name.
- In the name of God.
My name is Johns.
- What's his name?
His name is Jov.
"And the name of this star is Hurry."
My full name is Thamberley Tyrey, but people call me Tammy.
Well, there was a burglar known under the musical name.
And you lived under the name of the wife of the accused Leonard Vole?
And finally, the most distasteful accusation of an unexpected witness, one Christine Helm, whom the defendant married, took from her destroyed homeland to this safe country and gave her love and protection along with his name.
I don't remember her name anymore.
Your name, please.
You don't need names.
Maybe you should know the full name of the person they're addressed to. Miss...
Yes. Mrs. Helm, do you know a man named Max?
It's a simple question. Do you know a man named Max or not?
Pretty common name and yet you didn't know a man named Max?
...to a man named Max.
You said you barely knew her, and you don't even remember her name?
As I went up to my place on the 6th floor, I whispered your name.
She's gonna ask a person on the phone with a name that starts with the letter "b".
You're gonna die without a name?
There's a name.
Can you tell me his name? We lived in the same barracks at the construction site.
My code name is Berry.
I extend a warm welcome to you on behalf of the division.
Commander Jacques, on behalf of all of us, I would like to...
Please pass this on to Zawistsky's sponsor fund for officers who intend to escape.
Once you get this client's name, Camillo's only gonna have to issue an arrest warrant.
Name, father's name?
Name, place of birth, profession?
Why are you bothering me? Emile, that's your father's name.
You don't know his name. You've already told me that on the phone.
Found a client's name that might interest you. Emile Moran.
We'll register your names to see if there's enough people for legitimacy.
Probably a fake name.
If his name appears in the paper, count him dead.
I'm sorry to bother you at a time like this, but it's a big deal, believe me. Maybe her name is Kelly, but it could be anyone else.
Patient &apos; s name
Hallowed be thy name, Thy kingdom come,
That's a nice name.
As a material sign of respect and gratitude, I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the municipality, an envelope containing the contents, the appointment of which the esteemed jubilar will choose of his own free will, to the satisfaction of his own good.
This cabin was built 100 years ago by a strange, shy man named Tore Grovik.
- Is there a name?
Here, it's a commemorative sign with your father's name on it.
Did you register under your real name?
I welcome you on behalf of Major Ridgley, who is responsible for the tour, and on behalf of the Ministry of Defence.
That's your name.
I know all of them by their names.
But, in the name of heaven, for what?
You have to do it in the name of France. It's a war!
Seeing her in a dark little church marrying a plumber, who'd give her a name and a poor life with better intentions?
If that is your ambition, suffer in the name of respect.
He didn't tell me his name.
I hope we know his name.
- I'll give you the name and address later.
Famous names." Love.
Beautiful name.
I wasn't even allowed to leave my real name.
Yvette is a beautiful name.
When I think of romantic poets, names like Gene, Echendorf, Lenau, Morica...
What's in the name?
So Romeo, with another name, will still be perfect.
So break up with your name, Romeo, and, in exchange for that name,
So Romeo, with another name, will still be perfect.
"He reinforces my soul, directs me into the paths of righteousness for his name.
Her real name is Willa May.
You don't remember their names very soon.
Ah. That's a lovely, beautiful name for Christina.
Mr. Minister, if I may, on behalf of the journalists of the democratic Czech Republic, I would like to convey...
Her name is Vargas.
- My name is Grandi!
Did you hear that name?
Her name is Vargas.
- And her reputation, good name?
I won't leave until her good name is restored.
You don't remember a guy named Gavin Elster? He went to college with us.
Yeah, that's a funny name.
That's a nice name, isn't it?
I don't remember his name.
But I don't know your name, and you don't know mine.
Beautiful, manly name.
Is there a name on the tombstone?
- Your name.
Eagle, please remember that I was writing your promise in your name. I'm in that tree.
In the name of the law, everyone stays outside.
Nothing in your name.
- Your name, please.
What a name!
Give me a name, let's do it, let's do it!
I'm giving it to you. He was mine because I guessed his name, but I'm giving it to you.
Can you read the name? It's very dark in here.
And he called me by my name.
- Your name?
- Name?
- I suppose he has a name.
They're reading your family's name here.
Now the young Aria will rightly bear my name and inherit my fortune.
They're out of the Pharaoh's Arab horses. I gave them the names of the stars.
What kind of miracle are you wearing Consul's name?
Citizens! On behalf of your Emperor of the divine Tiberius, I welcome you to these Games!
We don't have any names or names.
He gave me his name, too.
I think his name is Jean.
I don't like the name. But there's something about the girl.
My dear cousin, hello to German chemistry on behalf of French.
By the way, dear Nenett, what's your full name?
Beautiful name for the president's wife.
- Your German name.
Just your name.
I have no more memories left but your name.
That's your name.
Yeah, that's my name.
And your name is Never.
Emeritus Chairman of the Regional Adaptation Committee of the Noble Ladies Needing, and a passive partner in this huge financial complex called the City and Nieto-Igol Trust. (named Threadneedle Street in London City)
Give me a name. Here's another one.
That name sounds familiar to me.
I own shares, and Bertie owns tax losses... only they're not in his name, of course.
By the name of Windrash.
His name has become vindictive to whiners and panickers ) but most of these numbers are just science fiction, sir.
Your name...?
The Congress of Professional Unions held a discussion, and on behalf of my colleagues, I can say that we are not prepared to formally support or condemn a strike.
On my right, His Excellency, Mr. Mahommed. ( Name distorted : Must be Mohammed )
Especially people's names and places.
Do you remember my name?
A week ago, I went to threats, demanded a summary. He said Lucien Sabatier's name. Anyway, I pissed off that poor woman consciously.
In the name of the father, the son and the holy spirit. So be it.
I know you have many names, but I accept your current choice.
I didn't have another name.
Your name?
Mrs. Townsend, does the name George Kaplan say anything to you?
It has been established that in a photograph of Roger Thornhill, the advertising manager from Manhattan, it means that the name George Kaplan, which he named in the General Assembly wasn't real.
Yeah, so your name isn't Kaplan.
Before we start calling each other different words, state your name.
Then you pretend to be a fugitive, trying to clear your name of a crime he didn't commit.
My name is Roger Thornhill.
I didn't get your name.
When my mother was young and impressive, it was a very stylish name in bad novels.
He's married to a girl named Sharon, and they have two kids.
In the name of Jesus.
Names?
Your name?
Apparently, the bride's name is Eurydice.
Do you love a woman named Eurydice?
- Do you know my name yet?
"A bait for an owl," what a funny name for a crow.
They didn't call you by your first name.
I don't even know your name.
Yeah, they called her that sunrise name... because she brightened their lives with sunlight.
Who are you? What's your name?
Oh... my name...
In the name of the King! You.
I don't like the name Geraldine.
- No names.
- Give me his name and address.
But if you accidentally boarded, how do you know the name Taggart?
This August, 7th, in Mombasa, did you appear before a justice of the peace for causing grievous harm to a man named Freeman?
In other words, I've already restored my good name...
And their dirt can't be called a real name!
The most important thing is to protect the company's name.
I want you to act on my behalf.
In the name of the king of Tarabar, open it!
Of course, you saw your name in the black box.
I just changed my names.
You can choose your own new name.
Rewrite it to a different name.
Do you know a man named Michelle Poaker?
I hate that name.
He has an Italian name.
He and a psychic psychic named Elaine Zacharides held spirit sessions together, talking to those who died five centuries ago.
Name on the door, mat on the floor.
I didn't mention your name, so there's not gonna be any trouble with the police or the newspapers.
- What's the name? - Miss.
His name is José.
- What's his name, you say?
My heart unites with yours, and listens to your song with a hearsay, crying remembers your name.
If you want, I'll give you the name of the pharmacist.
What's her name?
Now in heaven, one by one, your names will be recorded.
On your behalf, I thank Chevalier François de Capestan for the mission he has entrusted to him.
It flatters them. - What's her name?
- I don't have a good memory.
I want to know her name.
Mr. Marshal, thank you on behalf of the Provincial Council for having accepted me. Sit down.
My name?
A Beautiful Name
- Your name?
Even though it was a year ago, it's already so hard to tell about that winter, about me, about all the dolphins we were awarded in this town.
They started talking about them in a week. If only you could hear the names of those who were invited.
I can't imagine what's gonna happen when she finds out the name of the fan who sent her roses every morning.
Do you want to know the name of the man who sent the flowers to your sister?
Ridolfi's name is everywhere.
I'll just change the names of those who took part in the events and those who caused the whole thing.
- Now I don't have a name.
How do you know my name?
Name.
- I call everyone here by their name.
It's okay. My name.
My name is Sam McCord, I came from George Pratt. Ah, from him.
And cross my name out of the magazine!
What's your name?
I prefer French names. Michelle.
My name is Douggan. I want to sign my copy, sir.
- Looking for a guy named Boggs!
Yeah, but I just called the bar "Syrene" and not your name.
I forgot my name.
I don't know the name.
But at the end of the day, Tom, I'm sorry, but if you were to write to me, would you write in that tone and on the machine and just sign in your name?
I get it! His name...
I'm writing down all your names, Jimmy. To know who's sitting in my basement.
How did you know that name?
Her real name is Marion Crane, but she could have registered under a different name.
The girl could have registered under a different name.
Same as the detective. She used someone else's name.
- Name?
That name brings happiness.
- That's not a good name.
Anyway, we don't give ourselves names.
No matter what they stay in, your name will be blessed.
Damn his name!
And the name and all his heirs to the tenth tribe!
"He will negotiate on my behalf.
Do you know that name?
If they want to rid us of their unsustained presence... in the name of all the gods, let them go!
But the execution through the crucifix on the cross... was abolished... with the only condition that you identify... the body or the slave himself by the name of Spartacus.
And what's my name worth... on the list of traitors?
- What's his name?
And the name was amazing.
Such a good young man, such a good bouquet, and a nice name is Vova.
- That's a good name.
In the name of the Russian Socialist Federal Soviet Republic...
Dmitri Kolesov, the divine name.
All the names were listed, but the desperate thing was to pray for Pavl.
They even have the same names.
But that's not his name, because he still hasn't remembered his name.
Name. Landa.
And on that rock, the granite smashed out her name, her name and this hot year, nine hundred and fifty-five, so that every resident of our future city, no matter what path, would come to this stone and remember.
You had a different opinion, and you started giving them names, a little bit of a hit, maybe.
Don't give them names.
Who claims in the name of Lord Goodwin's son.
You can assure him I'll only rob on his behalf, as always.
I take command of the ship and the name of the dead captain.
- Say that name again.
- Say the name again!
What's your name, Mademoiselle Duchan?
Mary... that's an English name.
Poor fat man with no name.
I have no right to give him a name.
If I can ever find a place where I'm gonna feel like Tiffany's, then... then I'm gonna buy some furniture and I'm gonna give the cat a name.
You look a lot like a friend of mine, Holly.
My name, my position, my family.
I told him to take care of it, and he sent me the bill, and he didn't mention my name anywhere.
You're gonna break into the swamp she lives in, pick up all her junk, go to jail, get her out of there, and put her in a hotel under a fake name.
I have to take care of my family and my name and...
Let's give him a name.
In the name of God!
I want his good name back. But not like you.
I want to wash the shame off our name so I can wear it with honor.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, amen!
In the name of God! Open the gates of Valencia!
- How did you know my name?
I took Valencia in the name of my King Alfonso, King Castilla, Lyon and Asturia,
In the name of the father and son, and of the Holy Spirit!
Help her in the name of love for God!
I beg forgiveness for what Christians do in God's name!
Sergeant, take this mule. I'm seizing it on behalf of the government!
My name is Nondus Salonikus, I swear to you, these people...
Fascinating names, aren't they?
Shall I tell you his name?
Give me his name.
- His name, Miles!
His name, Miles!
Tell me his name!
- You have to tell me his name!
He's here, and you have to tell him his name!
- What's your name? Well, what's your name?
This trial is unusual because the defendants are charged with crimes they committed in the name of the law.
The prosecution then submits document No. 488, certified by a notary, in the name of the seamstress Annie Munich.
Please inform the court of your name and place of birth.
Please state your name.
I would even be pleased if the defense attorney could defend my name until I realized that in order to save my name, he would again call for ghosts.
Again and again, all this was done in the name of love for the homeland.
"It is obvious that in a modern-type State, the responsibility lies with those acting on behalf of the State.
Richard came up with names for our future children, and there was a very full woman standing next to me.
Some joker pointed out the killer's name on page 13.
Your name reminded me of her.
Here's a passport in the name of Jean Mayar.
A Birka with his name on it is in Akiko's sewing box.
First of all, it's registered in the name of Akiko.
You have a sister named Nobuco, don't you?
What was her name?
They all have a name and a color.
So you know a woman named Ai?
My name is Sayzo Kirigakure.
Actually, that's not my real name, but that's what I'm often called.
I'm ready to celebrate my own name.
Give me your name.
But I just want to know your name.
Find a woman named Ai from the Hayata-but-all group and grab her.
It's about a woman named Ai.
I'm a subject of Yukimura Saemon-no-jo Sanada, named Simaro Yokota.
In the name of the King, stop!
In the 13th century, a nobleman, a very bad man named Simon de Kerloken, lived in this castle with his beautiful young wife, Elyanne.
I meant the name.
What kind of name is that?
He didn't like my name and he started calling me Magali.
- What's your real name?
I have two names on my birth certificate. But everyone calls me Domenico.
What kind of name is that?
His name will be the streets in the major cities of France."
Would you like your name to be called the street?
Mr. Prime Minister, thank you on behalf of all of us.
Remember, any dirty work is done in the name of saving the country.
In silence, we pray for the soul of Tsukad Matsuo, who put his head on the battlefield in the name of His Majesty the Emperor.
On behalf of the village, I want to thank you.
That's a weird name. ( "Ushitora's a tiger cow" )
Completely matches his name, the wild pig.
It's totally in line with its name.
Open up! What's his name? What's that bastard's name?
His name was even knocked out on the memorial by the dead, but then it was erased.
- In the name of the Father and the Son...
In the name of the Italian people... three years, minimum term!
- Name?
In the struggle, one by one, against injustice, his name became a symbol of strength.
- Your name will become a legend.
Fiolo... where did you get that name?
- My name is the most common.
You have a beautiful name.
Everyone's got such beautiful names.
It would be important if they called names... or if you noticed an accent.
I really didn't know his name.
Write your name, address and phone number.
"There's time for that beautiful name, oh maiden.
- Write down your name and address.
Kramer, his name is Adam Kramer.
A Northman named Adam Kramer gave a provocative speech near the District Court, in which he explicitly urged the residents of Caxton to break the law, leading to an attack on a family of Negroes.
I hope you understand that now and will continue to act in the name of public order.
'Cause all she knew was daddy and mom. No name, no last name.
- But I'll give you my full name.
- Name?
Who are they? Their names?
Didn't a girl named Venus ask me?
On behalf of His Majesty!
On behalf of His Majesty the King of France, a reward of a thousand pounds has been awarded to anyone who grabs Cartoon!
- Her name?
- Do you know their names?
His Majesty the King orders the death penalty by hanging a man named Gentle.
I'll give you everything: my name, my fortune.
Father's name?
- Mother's name?
And the names? What's their name?
What a beautiful name...
How do they come up with names like that?
Francolycio... what's that name?
Do you have a name, beast?
I can't remember your name...
His name and address.
You will, but I need his name.
He gave you your name as a sponsor.
The Finnish archon, whose name was named the year that his reign took place.
My name is Hanshiro Tsugumo.
My name is Hanshiro Tsugumo.
Did you know a man named Motome Chijiva?
Don't you know that name?
Earlier this year... perhaps towards the end of January, a ronin named Motome Chijiva came to this palace with exactly the same purpose.
Under no circumstances can we allow our master's name to be stained in his absence.
I'm doing this to protect the honor of this house, the name of the Tokugawa family.
He's accompanying me on your behalf.
I've given the names of three people I'd like to see as my associates.
Of course, I'm the one who chose that name.
Former warrior by the name of Ooi Shume of the Courume clan.
In order to easily recognize the owner, I attached a name to every label.
Today, these lands have a name, and they're on the map.
All of this, however. : and the land and the names had to be recaptured.
I'd try my best to be worthy of the name Glenarvans.
She says a name in English that he can decipher.
- What's your name?
My name is for my friends.
Others fight in His name.
Since you know, we could act in the name of Faisal from Makkah.
But in the name of who are you doing this?
His name is Chapman...
I think then you can choose your own name.
I've heard of another man with that name.
I'd like to know if I can say on your behalf that we don't need Arabia.
Your name will be on everyone's mouth, while Allenby will be remembered only in the War Museum.
We are not here garits, not Hawaiits, not some other tribe, but Arabs in the Arab Council acting on behalf of Prince Faisal.
Everyone knows that the Arab Council took power on my behalf.
Do you remember a girl named Dolores Hayes?
Yeah, yeah, I remember that name well.
Do you have a daughter with a charming name?
Humbert Humbert, what an amazingly unusual name.
What was that, a name or a last name?
Your name and the name Lolita got there by accident, they just came to the fore.
They use the names of friends and people they meet in everyday life like the Farlow couple and make up funny situations.
You know a girl named Lolita?
My name...
It's a name you don't know and you don't understand, Professor.
I'm American Senator John Jerkis Izzlin, and I have in my hands a list of 207 names that the Department of Defense knows they're members of the Communist Party!
My full name is Eugene Rosa.
Of these two names, Rosa has always been nicer to me because he gives me house soap and the smell of beer.
Eugene's name seems more fragile, don't you think?
We'll pick out the names for the kids.
In the name of science, politics and technology, we leave our planet.
With these Russian names, I just couldn't figure out whether it was a man or a woman.
I knew my cute little girl named Susie, and another freckling little monkey named Janie.
- Oh, the name's like a panther!
What kind of name does he have...
I just gave the name "Joe" to a group of guys.
- What's his name?
- Give me their names. - Ohh. Well, it was Ruth, Gerig, and Simmons, and Fox and...
My name was Alben Mercier, but my name was Andre Mercier.
That's a nice name.
If necessary, take this man's place, replace him with the same name as me.
-...but I'd like to help you. - Do you know my name?
He's got a name... very nice.
I wish I knew your name.
- My name is a man.
I'm sure you have another name for yourself. - Francis.
Have you ever heard that name before?
Don't call me by my name.
This paper says Iori's name.
I see Tarada's name, too.
Don't forget the name of the man who saved your life. - It's not good.
Like those two, his family name was confiscated and his estate destroyed. Well, at least I helped keep them alive.
But, alas, there's a name you're wearing.
All I regret is that we had a daughter, not a son. The name's gonna go away.
Okay, for one reason, he has a son named Boo... who keeps him chained to his bed over there in that house.
Then write your name, please.
In the name of God, do what you have to do.
In God's name, believe me...
He can give you a name.
Dmitri? That's a nice name.
Call me on my behalf.
You mentioned her name.
It's in the interests of the tenants that I take care of the good name of the house. About a good name?
- I didn't know her name.
Everything cares about our good name.
I have a name, a position. For your information, I'm about to be appointed deputy chief of staff.
I, my lord, came as soon as I heard my name.
In the name of the law, I forbid you to open this door! When you want to do something useful and great!
Goodbye! And I will tell them by your name to the throne.
I've even come up with all the names in advance.
'Cause once you say a name, it's already kind of losing its charm.
In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
I was sacrilege. The name of Christ!
In God's name, say something!
In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen.
I'll give you the name of the demon who settled in your body.
That name will be written on paper.
And I command you, all unclean spirits and legions of demons, to set free, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, the body and soul of this divine creature.
Four evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John singing praises in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ.
In the name of Easter!
In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
- Don't say her name.
In the name of Christ, I release you forever!
You just give me the name of a friend, a close friend of Rami's, and I'll let you go.
Sali was alone with him. He was the only one who knew the names of the guys he was gonna pick up at Nai.
I realized no one knew the name of the second attacker in Naye. But they knew that Salinari was on another case-- Gilbert's murder. They suspected you because Sali told them about you.
- What's your name?
You're not gonna tell me you don't have a name, are you?
- My name? - Yes.
I came on behalf of my uncle, i.e. my father, i.e. Adriana, to invite you to dinner, you and your lovely daughter.
Every gift has a name on it.
But I wanted to go with a girl named Melanie.
Monsieur Morel only gave me the time and address, and I wanted to know the name of the man I was supposed to meet.
Monsieur Morel didn't name any names.
What's your name?
Are you sure you don't know my name?
I'm saying that it's a letter addressed to Morel that tells him to hand this huge envelope to the face whose name is on it.
Lou is your real name?
What's the real name?
Did I say Lin's name?
- Crupier gave me a name... and one man was taken out.
After the war, you'll be back in the ring, and your name will be known again.
Name?
- And for dinner, I think you're hungry. - That's right. I don't know your name.
In the name of her husband. Is there only one Charles Lampert there?
Until very recently, all I knew about Charles was his name.
Yes. We knew his real name, of course.
A tall man in a velvet suit. His name is Tex Penthallow.
Dyle is his name.
Here's what you have to do. We need to know who that man is, Dyle.
In the name of Dyle, please.
That's my only name.
You know my name.
Now I won't soon get used to your new name.
At least give me your name at this stage.
Didn't you know that by calling yourself someone else's name... you're breaking the law?
I'm sorry, but my name is Adam Canfield.
Amazing. You realize you changed three names in two days.
I see. But the man is the same, but the name is different.
Tex wrote Dyle's name before he died.
Tell him I'm in a phone booth on this subway station and my name is Lampert!
My name is Lampert.
Okay. In a week's time, that name will be on our marriage certificate.
I hope we have a lot of boys... and we'll call each one your name.
We speak on behalf of the entire community.
Names, clearly written.
In the name of what?
We'll write the name of the ringer... before the time comes.
Tell me your name again.
Christ's name.
Equals to kings. May I mention their names in your presence. You know everything.
Cavriaga's a handsome guy, he's got a good name, he's rich.
I mean, after Sicily's merger with the kingdom of Sardinia, the government in Turin wants to give some prominent Sicilians the position of Senator of the kingdom. Of course, your name was among the first.
A name famous for its origins underscores the authority of who wears it,
Osborne... name? William.
How many names do you have?
Who's gonna believe you... under the false name that almost made Mr. Broomfield look bigger than his secretary?
And even though he didn't know your real name.
I also took the liberty of slightly blackmailing Mr. Osborne on your behalf.
But on your behalf.
Your name?
In the name of the law, I'll arrest you.
- What's your name?
I'll write him a letter on my own behalf and my wife's behalf.
How do you react in your name everywhere?
But I don't even know your name.
Layla isn't your real name, is she?
That's a pretty name for you, too.
Why do you have a Turkish name?
Your name is Andre, and that's a Greek name.
Your name?
Her name, I think...
I'll leave you their names and address.
Her name is Lucille.
Kidnapping, secret prisons, girls being sold as slaves to strange trades of all kinds on behalf of foreign countries...
Actually, I don't know my real name.
In the police file, he's listed as a Romanian stealing chicken by the name of Constantinescu, but when he bought this place, it was called Usach's and it was cheaper to grow a mustache than to buy a new sign.
What's your name? Jacques Casanova.
- What's your name?
Take all the documents in which Favro's name will appear, as well as any information on banks and accounts.
You're gonna get your name back and your fortune back.
He introduced himself as a reporter, his name is Oto Unno.
I'd like to keep the captain's good name, but now I have no choice.
So... your name?
I embarrassed the name Jinguchi... forgive me...
The thing is, I didn't look at the name plate on the door.
He had a name I've never heard before.
He started talking about a name I never heard.
I said another name, and I heard it for the first time, too.
If you write a letter to the King right now, perhaps the church's names will be posted in time.
That year, there was a man named Thorngren who lived across the yard.
Go back, Piggy, and do the names.
Now Kemberley is an old place, and it hasn't worn that name all the time.
- Even your name I like.
- Tell him only that name:
- She said a strange name, but I can't remember...
- I came on behalf of Xandros.
Give me your name and address.
Take my name off the school list.
- What's the name?
I saw the name Mazumdar, and I also heard your voice on the phone. Oh, yeah.
Now the water is ours. Give me my name.
I don't even know your name.
Her name is Samantha Blake.
- That's where I met that blonde to tell you the truth, I don't even know her name.
You don't know what you did in the name of France and America.
Bertram, his first name?
Fake accent, fake hair, fake name.
- They respond to their names.
Don't disappoint your family's honest name.
I'm saying he could have come under the name of Borgia, so he wouldn't have to come up with anything about a cousin.
in the name of 1,000 lumpens.
I am here for our committee, and I will teach you the desire to learn, the glory of Soviet painting.
On my Gypsy Mother, on my Shepherd Father, I'll write your name.
On my first brother, the bandit, on my second brother, the cripple, on my third brother, the shoe cleaner, on my fourth brother, the poor man, I will write your name.
On my fellow soldiers, I'll write your name.
on the desert nomads, on the Medina field workers, on Oran's workers, on Oran's little bats, I'll write your name.
In the lower classes of Africa, on the slaves of the lumpen world, I will write your name:
Your brother's full name, please?
Did you know that man named Sloan, the patient here who was stabbed in the kitchen?
That was his name.
What's your name?
Do you know his name?
- Tell me his name?
Tell me his name!
I was so close to getting the real killer's name... and, boom, he went crazy again.
I'd like to remember the name.
He gave me the name of the killer.
He gave me a name.
Why can't I remember the name?
Name!
I can't remember the killer's name!
He was sent to a surgical lab... where, in the name of science... immoral doctors tortured and killed innocent people without pity.
What Dr. Foreman said... that's not his name.
Maybe if we knew his name, we'd understand all that.
- He told me his name.
- Name?
His name is Friend.
The young man whose name is Friend spoke to me.
Nothing, I just like saying your name.
- I wouldn't give that much. What's the name?
You came here with your boyfriend and that tail named Max...
I command you in the name of Khan Kublai!
His name isn't Tehana, is it?
- What's your name, sir?
That's the day we're reading Tlalok's name.
What name did your mother give you?
For seven centuries, we flourished, and then a man named Yartek found a way to overcome the powerful influence of the machine.
In the name of all my people, I hope you succeed.
That name made me laugh.
The boy on the bike, he didn't give his name...
Then I changed my mind about giving him my number and giving him a name.
On behalf of Her Majesty and the Continental Congress, help me with this tape.
What's the name?
It's not a German name, is it?
Now, listen, Colonel Guano, if that's really your name, I have a great idea.
What's your name, son?
- Your name. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
I changed my names.
In the name of the Italian people...
But at the same time, he's the most unhappy, because my name is Bernard D'Andijos and I'll marry you on trust.
Your restraint may be envied, but the arrest warrant is signed by the King. And the prison book doesn't include Peyrac's name or an indictment.
Let them burn it in the name of heaven! Grab her!
Not a single big name?
At least I could read your name.
He didn't just pay the bills, he even took the loans on my behalf.
I can't tell you how dishonestly he used my name.
She said I was his friend. She gave me a name and a name.
Name.
Just your name.
Who told you my name?
- Your name is Foster, isn't it?
He told you his name was Blackwood.
My name's half German, too. My name is Max.
- You don't remember the name?
Name?
Name...
Name... I...
Hallowed be the name of Christ!
I swear by the name of Lampiao, I will avenge the living and the dead!
It's a name for a cattle driver.
From now on, your name...
In the name of the law, you're under arrest.
In the name of the law, open it!
- A bribe from a civil servant. Your name?
I'm wearing the latest fashion. Fashion is a name for you, but it's just a thing for me.
That's a nice name.
I like your name. Honestly.
Well, I'm too well-educated to say names. But for Thanksgiving, there was a little incident at the organ gallery.
Look, maybe we should put out the names cards.
Please, no names.
I told you my name.
His name was Kilovatt, and we burned the fragrance in honor of his power.
Your name is George, isn't it?
Take what you want, drag what you want, but in the name of humanity, help me get out of this terrible cage!
Please call him on my behalf.
As long as you call me by your wife's name...
Don't ever call a woman by her name.
No name.
Tell me the name of the caller.
Caller's name! If I had known, I wouldn't have asked!
Not yours. The car's in your name.
But I said your name.
Speaking of names. I know a man with a wooden leg named Smith.
I know a man with a wooden leg named Smith.
And I don't want to hear that name all day long.
"I know a man on a wooden leg named Smith."
A wooden leg named Smith.
A wooden leg named Smith.
"A wooden leg named Smith."
What's your name?
Well, Philumena, you're in your home, a contract for your name.
They need a name. They'll wear my last name!
Besides, Soraya called him that name.
No one has ever dared to insult my name, much less like you, you filthy slave trader!
How do you know my name?
Your name, please?
Your name, miss?
You don't need to know my name!
The first student to know your name!
François is a beautiful name for a boy.
Name?
Name?
- Yes. Name?
Name?
"An innocent wife has been bought, all her children will be given his name.
"He didn't leave a name.
Zigi is Ashkenaz's name, huh?
"The old man didn't give his name.
Name?
- Name?
Don't you think we only need one name?
The only treasure we have is an honest name.
How do you know my name?
In the name of the gods, what happened?
And that gives you the right to call her by her name?
Give me your names, please.
On behalf of every resident of Gellen, on behalf of all the inhabitants of this independent city, I reject your outrageous offer.
It's hard not to call you by your name.
Show me where your name is mentioned.
In the name of the law.
I didn't know she had a name.
All the kids have names.
What's your name?
You don't have the capacity to act on your behalf.
Remember that name, Napoleon Bonaparte.
I'll be if you say my name wrong.
As a familiar voice... calls you by your name.
I wear the gold seal of Han Kublai, and in his name I have full authority to seize and detain your caravan.
Thanks to a girl named Gwyneth.
- She actually has a name.
We have a date, and you didn't even ask my real name.
Well, she said her name.
That's my name.
But I'll make sure your name is mentioned in the right place.
But I don't even know your names.
Only Christian names.
You're the perfect victim, as your name implies.
The commander must be perfect, and his name must be awful.
- Does he know my name? - Nope.
What delusional names!
Who said my name?
- Name?
You have offered your services in a field governed by the laws of the city of Millenius. Any person may speak on behalf of another person.
He was brought into the city by a man named Arbitan a few years ago.
You'll know his name soon enough.
Does the name Arbitan mean anything to you?
Arbitan sent me with another friend named Eprim.
Let me speak to Otlock on behalf of your friends.
Hallowed be thy name,
- Yeah, my name's inside.
Your name?
In the name of law, in the name of humanity, as a Christian, I protest.
He was looking for a patient named Marlowe.
Can I sign your cast on behalf of the Society?
That name suits you.
Helped save my king, I screamed his name and took his identity.
Um... what's your name?
In your name.
One name.......................................
I'm not gonna link my wife's name to that. God, it's an inspiration or not. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Those two that were just here, you know them? - Looks like it, but I don't know the names.
But, Doctor, you don't even know your name! Yeah, really, darling.
Give me your full name.
A few months later, Vladimir's name was identified as one of those who fell under Borodin Vladimir Nikolaevich.
And let's call things our names.
I praise death in the name of our lives.
Petrov Club.
Mujin Club.
What's that? I just wanted to say... I have a name.
That's a good name.
What's his name, by the way?
Blog... that's the name.
That's a woman's name! ♪ ♪ ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh... ♪
Alexander Dovzhenko Film Studio
Our Father, be thou in heaven, hallowed be thy name, Thy will be done, our bread our lifeliness give us the day...
In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, amen.
In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, amen.
My real name is hard to say:
- Your name?
Is Natasha even a name?
Your name may sound like Ivan Johnson, but it's pronounced Lemmi Couching, secret agent number 003 from the outside world.
I'll do it on my own behalf.
Your name?
Does the name Shooter mean nothing to you?
It says here that the Jewish Revolutionary Justice Committee expropriated my house in the name of the people.
Tonya Komarova is a common name.
I knew her name from the poems she found in Yuri's manuscripts.
She was a maid at this hotel, her name was Tilde.
Our name, our family's name was dishonoured.
Our name is disgraced... our name, do you understand?
Our name!
I couldn't have our family name mixed with dirt!
It's all in the past now! Our name is clear!
Our name was kept clean!
On behalf of the President of the Republic, I am authorized to appoint you as the cavalier of the Order of Honor of the Legion.
Mr. Commissioner, on behalf of the President of the Republic, I am authorized to appoint you as the cavalier of the Order of complete idiots.
I forgot your name.
Thought I'd give him a name.
What does that mean?
The Great is just an addition to my name to enhance the theatrics.
In the name of Preverty, the daughters of the mountains... whose arms with Ranmi make the world trembling... whose name is cruel... whose name is dark, whose name is inaccessible... whose name
- In the name of science! I'm taking that ring. - It's yours.
In the name of Kaili, stop!
In the name of Preverty, the daughters of the mountains...
Just close your eyes and shove it in the name - Pump it in the name?
- Any name.
- That's a name, you fool.
- He wants to know who I am! - Pick a name! Pick any name!
You have nauseous taste! She even lied about her name.
You're blackmailing me to marry you, and all for sleeping in the same bed, wearing a ring and having a missus in front of your name?
Anyway, the Gypsy can't sleep either.
You knew my name. How did you know all this?
We chose names at random.
A cup in Dr. Radcliffe's name.
One of them, code name Sparrow, as I just learned, was detained by French surte two months ago and is still in their possession.
So there's Eric Ashley Grantby, code name for "The Winter Man." Born in Albania in the thousand nine hundred and eighteen.
"The winter boy" in the hat. The bald one is his right hand, code name "Shoot."
Code name "Shoot."
Forget your name.
You don't have a name.
No name.
Forgot your name.
You'll forget what happened to you, but you'll remember your name.
She said she knew one Amitabhu Roy in college, but she never heard of a script with that name.
I made a name for myself,
I can't find the tree on which I cut my name.
Name?
What's your name?
Your name?
I knew you under that name, my child.
Good name, good name, good name!
Good name, Yago, oh, my good name!
It's more sensitive than losing a good name.
And the good name is nonsense, fiction, empty sound: often it is given free of charge and lost without fault.
If you don't have a name yet, I'll call you the devil!
It was bright, as Diana's face, as Desdemon's name,
Beautiful name!
I once had a friend named Pearl.
I'll call her Suwan's name. A real hero.
- Do you remember my name?
Well, this gentleman, who is afraid to sign his own name, will hear of me.
So your name is Rosina Lenobl?
- What do you want, in the name of all the saints?
A hundred names have been lost among thousands of others.
How dare you say the name of the emperor with your filthy mouth!
Because of him, the name of the battalion is always stained!
Our Father, we are in heaven, hallowed be thy name, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, Jacob in the earth, and in the heavens.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost.
Lord of mercy, I spell you in the name of Christ, get out of this man's body.
I implore you in the name of Christ, leave the blessed one to pray in peace.
In the name of Christ...
That name is "honest."
I'll call them by their names.
Beautiful names.
All right, now give me your names again and how old you are.
In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
It's just the names of the kids.
- Name?
- Name?
I don't even know your name.
Illegal son, no name, no fortune.
Name?
If I give the government the right or the means to kill people from another country on my behalf, that's exactly the same situation.
Hallowed be thy name.
Gentlemen, my name is Groman.
Every inch, every chain every contact in this robot... I know as well as my own name.
- A woman named Harriet Jones.
You're confused with her name.
- Doctor, they have names.
Even dared to get names, all for new ways to kill.
I heard a voice calling me by my name.
But you said her name!
Do you have to whistle my name from all angles?
How did you know my name?
That was the name she called when we found her.
Before you start making fun of this prisoner, maybe you need to know that his name is Diomed.
You called me first by my name!
His name is Stephen.
It's a very wild name.
It's the name of the pagans if you ask me.
It's... it's a very beautiful name.
That's the name she called herself when we found her.
I have to find a name for him.
But who needs a singer named Bing Crosby?
The Soviet Government has agreed to the formation of a Polish division named Tadeusz Costusko.
"Lived, fought," didn't even keep a name.
Father's name?
They nod, they say amen, you call them names.
His name is Sanai Akizuki.
Jacinto. What name do you want?
Today we enter the village under our real names.
Don't say the name of the Lord in vain.
Many times I wanted to call you by your name, but you have so many of them that I don't remember one.
Well, if you're not offended that the name is one for two, I want to be called like you:
José Maria........................................... If you are not yet baptized, I baptize you in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.
In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, rejoice in the Holy Virgin Mary, go in peace.
And that my hand, in the name of God, will always be ready to stand up for him.
Padre, we've learned that you sheltered the boy and named him José Maria.
He loved that name!
List of names.
And with a science officer, a half-Vulcan named Spock.
That's a nice name. For a beautiful girl.
Do you have a name, too?
- I like that name.
Will the defense say anything else on behalf of the prisoner?
My scientific friend would like to thank you, sir, on behalf of the Monoids, for the care you have shown us all.
Surrender, by the name of the King!
You don't know that name?
The blackest name I know is a boy.
If he said it, then you should know his name.
I see that name means something to you?
What in the name of hell did you bring here?
On behalf of the FNF, my sincere congratulations.
- Name?
Wouldn't it be better to call things your own names?
In the name of love for God, brother.
In God's name, give me something!
In the name of God, give it to me! 34 00:07:25.728 - - 00:07:27.762 I'm a traveler, and I've come a long way.
Donations in the name of God.
Well, if you want something, go to him, with your story, his name is Master Mateo.
In the name of God, do not harm us in any way.
Your name will always be etched on my heart, Cotolay, I will never forget... because you made it possible to build the first monastery of my charter.
It's in his father's name that they're gonna carve him out.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.
- I hope you've heard the name Ass from Figula. - Nope. ( * Most of the titles of the Western European nobles are created by clicks )
My name... attention... is Brancaleone * from Norch. (* lion's paw - it...................................
My name is Brancaleone from Norch.
Names, passwords and appearances will be announced later.
Who knows the names of your agents besides you and Marjorie?
His name?
The car in my wife's name, the gift is mine, you don't have anything.
By the name of Jackson.
I'm just wondering what name Jackson's hiding under.
What makes you think Jackson's hiding under a different name?
$500... for a name.
His name.
Jackson's name is Bill Carson.
He lives with a girl named Maria. She'll tell you where he is.
Have you ever heard of a man named Bill Carson?
Have you... have you ever heard of a man named Canby?
Does it say a name?
There's a name.
But there's got to be a number or a name on it!
What did he tell you? Name.
Name's on the grave.
What's the name?
Name and travel documents......................................
I'd say the name on the grave.
Please tell me the name... on the grave.
But if I find out that name, I'll give you some water.
Why are you walking under the name Bill Carson now?
All names are good.
Bill Carson is a name, isn't he?
Bill Carson's name is on it.
He knows the name on the grave.
Now I know the name of the cemetery. You know the name on the grave.
Names don't matter.
The name on the grave...
I'll write this stone's name.
There's no name on it.
There's no name here either.
Don't use your title or your real name.
Is that your real name? Asher.
You'll finish it, or your name and tomorrow's number will be removed on this rock.
His name will live forever in our hearts.
I don't want to hear her name.
Lem, the diamond dealer named McCormack was coming to see you?
